

CHAPTER 1
Grandfather’s News
Grandfather Alden sat in a lawn
chair and poured a glass of lemonade. It was
a hot August day with the sky a bright blue.
When Violet went by, he said, “Violet, dear,
call the others, will you?”
“Yes, Grandfather,” she answered. Tenyear-
old Violet was a lovely girl who was
shy and sweet.
In a few minutes all four of the grandchildren
sat on the grass before Mr. Alden.
Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny loved their
grandfather. They remembered when their

parents had died and they had run away to
hide in a boxcar. They had heard their grandfather
was a mean old man, and they had
been afraid that he would find them. When
Violet became ill and a doctor was needed,
the doctor told her grandfather about the
children. It was then they went to live with
him, and discovered that Grandfather wasn’t
mean at all. He was kind and good. He always
encouraged them to follow their own
ideas.
Grandfather Alden poured each child a
glass of cold lemonade, then leaned back in
his chair. “I have some interesting news for
you,” he said, his warm smile widening.
Henry and Jessie leaned forward. What
could his news be? Violet was quiet as usual,
but her eyes were big with curiosity. Benny,
the youngest, only six, couldn’t stand it any
longer. He jumped up and danced around
his grandfather. “What is it?” he asked.
Grandfather laughed. He knew how much
Benny loved an adventure, In fact, they all
loved an adventure. Even Watch, their dog,
who lay at Jessie’s feet.
Grandfather's News 
Grandfather became serious. “I’ve just
talked to Pete Hanson.”
“Doesn’t he own the café and bait shop in
Rock Falls near the bay?” Henry asked.
“Yes, he does,” Grandfather answered.
“Pete told me that the small village’s old library
is going to be torn down. You know
it hasn’t been used in many years.”
“Why?” Benny asked.
“Well,” Grandfather said, “not only were
there not enough people in town, but when
the librarian left several years ago, no one
took her place.”
“T remember seeing the boarded-up library
once,” twelve-year-old Jessie said.
“TI don’t remember!” Benny shouted. “I
want to see it!”
“T think we’re all about to see the library,
Benny,” Henry said. He looked at his grandfather.
“Isn’t that right?”
“That’s right, Henry,” Grandfather Alden
replied. Henry was only fourteen, but he was
wise and understanding. Grandfather finished
his lemonade and said, “That library
belongs to the town of Rock Falls, and it has
4 
shelves and shelves of old books that probably
need to be sorted out. I remember that
lovely library building when I was young.
My family had a house in Rock Falls where
we spent our summers.”
“How young were you?” Benny asked.
“T was a little boy like you,” Grandfather
said. “And I was fond of the old library, and
now I want to see the town council give it
landmark status.”
“What is landmark status, Grandfather?”
This time Violet asked the question.
“When a building is saved by the public
so that everyone can enjoy its history.
Wouldn’t you like to explore the place and
see what’s in the library? And neaten it up
so it looks good enough to be a landmark?”
“Yes, yes!” Benny said. “An adventure!
When can we go?”
“You can leave tomorrow,” Grandfather
said, a twinkle in his eyes. “I’ve received permission
from Pete. You see, Pete owns a
small house on the edge of the village. During
the summer months he lives and works in
his restaurant and in the winter he lives in
Grandfather’s News 5
his house, carving and painting fish lures.”
Jessie stood up. Even though she was two
years younger than Henry, she always knew
what needed to be done. “How wonderful
to be able to stay in Pete’s house. We'll need
bedding, food, and some cooking pots.”
“No cooking pots or bedding.” Grandfather
laughed. “You'll find Pete’s place is
well equipped. You'll even find some canned
and packaged goods on the shelf. All you'll
need to bring is fresh food. Later, you can
go to Pete’s Café and buy what you need.”
He handed a key to Henry. “This will unlock
Pete’s house.” Next he handed a key to Jessie.
“And this is for the library. Pete sent
both to me.”
“Thanks, Grandfather,” Jessie said.
Grandfather reached down and scratched
Watch’s ear. “You stay with me, Watch.
Otherwise, Ill be lonesome.”
“Let’s start packing,” Henry said. His dark
blue eyes were sparkling with excitement.
They all ran into their house except Violet.
She stooped down and kissed Grandfather’s
forehead. “Thank you,” she said softly.
6 
“You're welcome, Violet.” Grandfather’s
eyes softened. How lucky he was to have
such loving grandchildren.
The next morning the Alden children set
off on their bicycles. Their backpacks and
baskets contained supplies and clothing.
They pedaled for two hours. Henry was
ahead. Jessie and Violet followed, and Benny
was behind. Even though Benny pedaled as
fast as his legs would go, he was last. “Wait
for mey’ he yelled. ‘Um hungry? oie
stopped in the middle of the road.
Jessie laughed. “You’re always hungry,
Benny.” But she slowed down and stopped.
“I know,” Benny said, smiling.
“Look,” Violet said, pointing to two large
oak trees with a small stream beside them.
“Wouldn’t that be a perfect scene to paint?”
“That’s a perfect place for a picnic,” Henry
said. He jumped off his bike and wheeled it
off the road.
Benny parked his red bike by the roadside,
too.
Jessie spread a checked tablecloth on the,

8 
soft green grass. Violet poured milk into paper
cups and they all drank from them, except
Benny, of course. He had his pink
cracked cup. He’d found it in a dump when
they lived in the boxcar, and wouldn’t part
with it. Henry reached for the thermos and
refilled the cups. Benny quickly took out four
ham sandwiches from the picnic basket, and
they began to eat.
An _ orange-and-black butterfly hovered
over their food.
“That’s a big butterfly!” Benny shouted.
“It might eat my sandwich.”
Henry chuckled. “No, it won’t. You’ve
already eaten most of it. The poor monarch
butterfly won’t even get a crumb.”
After they’d eaten sweet purple grapes for
dessert, they once again got on their bikes.
“Only a few more miles,” Henry said. He
studied his compass. “The library is straight
east of here.”
Jessie started to sing:
“Row, row, row your boat
Gently down the stream.”
Soon everyone joined in.
Grandfather’s News 9
After riding a couple of miles, and going
through the tiny town of Rock Falls, Henry
said, pointing, “There it is. Pete gave Grandfather
perfect directions.” Pete’s house, surrounded
by trees and bushes, looked neat and
well kept. Off in the distance stood the library,
a gray shingled building with windows
boarded up and the roof sagging in the
middle. Even farther away sparkled a green
sea.
They pedaled faster.
When they reached Pete’s house, they saw
it had an upstairs window that looked out
toward the water. They stopped.
“Oooh,” Benny whispered. “The house
looks so lonely. Maybe ghosts live there
when Pete is gone for the summer.”
“Nonsense,” Henry replied. “Let’s go inside.”
He sounded cheerful, but secretly he
agreed with Benny. There was something
scary about this place. Henry glanced about.
No one was in sight. He looked over his
shoulder. He was sure something would happen
here. Their visit might not be as much
fun as everyone thought.
CHAPTER 2
The Old Library
Henry unlocked the deserted
house and went in first. The sun streamed
through the window.
He motioned the others to follow. Slowly
they went in. The wooden floor creaked. The
first large room had a table with five chairs.
A stool sat in the corner by a stone fireplace,
and a wood-burning stove was in the center
of the room. A huge cobweb stretched across
one corner.
“Look!” Jessie exclaimed. “A stove! We
can have a fine hot supper.”
10
The Old Library yA
Benny smiled. “That’s good news. But it’s
broken.”
“Tt will be easy to fix,” Violet said. “Only
the oven door is off its hinges.”
“Don’t worry,” said Jessie. “I can push it
back in place.” She opened and closed the
_ squeaking cast-iron door.
Next they went into a bedroom. Two
bunk beds were against one wall. A sagging
string held up a tattered curtain at the window.
It was clear Pete had other things on
his mind besides keeping house.
“Neat!” Benny shouted. He dashed to the
beds’ ladder and climbed up to the top bunk.
He bounced up and down on the mattress,
causing the dust to fly. “I want this bed!” he
yelled.
“Youre welcome to it,” Henry said, sitting
on the bottom bunk. He coughed. “Whew!
Too much dust!” He glanced at Jessie.
“Where shall we begin?”
Jessie nodded. She knew exactly what to
do. She’d already run upstairs and found two
more bunk beds up there. “First, we need to
clean the two windows in this room and the
LalN o 
two in the kitchen. That way we can see
outside.”
“Why” Henry asked, rubbing off the window
grime so that he had a small peephole.
“There’s nothing to see. No one is in this
desolate area but us, and there isn’t even a
phone in the house.”
Violet swallowed. “No one but us?” she
asked in a low voice. “That gives me the
creeps.”
“We're safe as we can be,” Henry said.
“Pete’s restaurant is only two miles away.”
“IT know,” Violet said, but she didn’t sound
reassured.
“Next,” Jessie said matter-of-factly to
show she wasn’t nervous and to help Violet,
“we'll take the four mattresses outside and
whale the daylights out of them.”
“Right!” Henry grinned. “Unless Benny
wants to bounce the dust out!”
“No, no,” Violet said.
“Just teasing,” Henry said. He rolled up
his sleeves and lifted a mattress over his
shoulder and headed for the door. “Come on,
Benny,” he called. “We'll do one at a time.”
The Old Library 13
Eagerly Benny scrambled down the ladder.
“Violet,” Jessie said, “let’s tackle the floor.
I saw an old broom and a mop by the stove.
There was a pail, too.”
“Right,” Violet agreed. “This floor could
use a scrubbing.”
“Tt could use two scrubbings,” Jessie said,
tying a scarf over her hair. “Let’s get started.”
“Where’s the water?” Violet questioned.
Jessie pointed out the window. “See that
pump? We'll have plenty of fresh water, and
there’s a dry sink in the house.”
Jessie fetched a pail of water, bubbling
with soap suds because of the detergent she’d
added.
First the girls scrubbed the kitchen, then
the bedrooms. The floors began to shine.
The boys went in and out with first one
mattress, then another. The four Aldens
worked all afternoon. They washed the windows
and cleaned the stove.
Benny came in and wiped his forehead,
smudging a streak of dirt even further across
his face. He dropped into a chair. “Whew!
14 
We pounded four mattresses. We washed
four windows. I’m tired and. . .”
“I know,” Violet said with a laugh.
“You're tired and hungry.”
Benny cocked his head to one side. “How
did you know what I was going to say?”
“We all know what you were about to
say,” Henry said. Playfully he poked Benny
in the ribs. “Besides, ’m hungry, too.”
‘So-am I,” Violet said.
“Me, too,” Jessie agreed.
Henry threw back his head and laughed.
“Then it’s a majority. Let’s unload the supplies
and eat.”
Jessie went out to the pump to wash her
face and hands.
Next Violet went out to the pump, then
Henry, then Benny.
“We'll need wood for the stove,” Jessie
said.
“Pm way ahead of you,” Henry replied
with a smile. “There’s a bundle of wood by
the front door.”
Jessie peeled potatoes and onions and
scraped the carrots. Henry set a pot of water
The Old Library 1S
on the stove. When the water boiled, the girls
dropped in a soup bone they had brought
and the vegetables.
“A hot supper will taste good,” Jessie said.
“PII say it will.” Benny rolled his eyes and
patted his stomach. It didn’t take too long
for the soup to cook. With a crusty bread
they had brought from home and fresh pears
and cookies, they had a delicious meal.
After supper Violet sat on the window
ledge. “There’s the library,” she said softly.
“Where?” Benny asked eagerly, craning
his neck to see.
“On the hill over there.” Violet gazed at
the gray building. “How sad and lonely it
looks.”
“We'll cheer the old place up tomorrow,”
Jessie said. “We'll be chattering and going
through its old books.”
“Oh, yes,” Benny said, clapping his
hands. “We’ll make the library happy. We're
going to save it.”
But that night before Violet got into bed,
she stared out the window. She wondered if
anything could save the old library.
CHAPTER 3
The Squirrel That Waswt There
The next morning, before anyone
awakened, Henry quietly went outside
and mounted his bicycle. He pedaled down
the winding path and rode the two miles to
Pete’s Café. He must phone Grandfather and
tell him they'd arrived safely.
The air smelled salty, and the sunny day
warmed him. He felt good. They were off
on another adventure.
Entering the café, Henry smiled at a
plump man with a white beard behind the
counter. He knew he must be Pete. “Hi, ’m
16
The Squirrel That Wasn’t There 17
Henry Alden. James Alden is my grandfather.
My sisters and brother and I are living
in your house for a few days,” Henry said.
“Hi, Henry,” the plump man said. “Good
to meet you. How do you like my house?”
“Fine,” Henry answered. He didn’t want
to tell him how much cleaning they’d had to
do.
Pete chuckled. “I imagine the cobwebs and
dust were pretty thick after my house had
been sitting there for all these months. I
guess you and your sisters and brother took
care of things.”
“We did a little cleaning,” Henry said with
a smile.
“Did you find the extra pillows in the
closet by the back door?”
“Yes, we’ve found everything we need,”
Henry assured him.
“And the pump worked okay?”
“Yes, and so did the stove and refrigerator,”
Henry said. “I need to use the phone
to tell Grandfather we're all right.”
“Go right ahead,” Pete said. “And tell him
hello for me.”
18 
As Henry dialed, he overheard two men
who were sitting at a nearby table.
The first man leaned forward. “Did you
hear Mrs. Tate was robbed of her diamond
ring last week?”
“You’re kidding!” the second man said in
surprise. “That’s the third robbery in two
months. Some antique maps were taken from
Tom Davis’s map and coin shop, and Mike
Johnson’s jewelry store was robbed, too.
Who do you suppose is doing it?”
“Beats me,” the first man said. “But we’d
all better keep things under lock and key.”
Henry promised himself that they’d better
be careful and lock Pete’s door.
After talking to Grandfather, Henry said
good-bye to Pete and biked back to the house.
He arrived just in time for breakfast, and
then they all biked to the library, which was
about a quarter of a mile away. Because the
narrow winding lane was steep, Benny had
to stop several times.
When they reached the library, they
stopped to stare at the gray shingled build20

ing. It tilted to one side, and the ground floor
windows were boarded up. The front concrete
steps were chipped and broken, and the
roof had lost half its shingles.
The second floor had a large window looking
to the sea. Because no one had boarded
it up, a few glass panes were missing. It was
as if the library had one big eye watching the
water. Watching and waiting. What was it
that Violet had said? Jessie thought. The library
looked sad and lonely.
“Wow!” Benny uttered, a light breeze
rumpling his dark shiny hair. “It’s scary!”
Jessie pushed her strange thoughts away.
“Let’s see for ourselves,” she said brightly.
She moved to the first step.
“Okay,” Benny said. “I’m right behind
you.”
Henry laughed, taking Violet’s hand.
“This is going to be fun.”
Jessie unlocked the door.
After they entered the dark and silent library,
they halted. Surprise was written on
their faces. Shelves of books lined the room,
but many more books were scattered on the
The Squirrel That Wasn’t There 21
floor, some face down. Others were thrown
in a corner. In the center of the room was a
large desk that had been the circulation desk.
They walked further into the room. Henry
bravely went upstairs. “Come on,” he urged.
His brother and sisters followed. They went
into a room that also had books, but there
was a large reading area by the big window.
Under the window was a long seat covered
in faded and worn material.
“Tiss velvet (seat was ronce red,” Jessie
said, brushing her fingertips over the cushion.
“It looks pink to me!” Benny said. His
voice echoed through the whole room.
“All right,” Henry said, “before we go
through the books, I'll remove the boards
from the downstairs windows.” He was
dressed for work, too, in his jeans, and a shirt
with a red stripe and short sleeves. “if sve
make the library look good, it may be given
the landmark status Grandfather wants so
much.”
“Tt would be wonderful to be able to do
that for him,” Violet said.
22 
“Tl help you, Henry,” Benny said, running
downstairs.
“Careful,” Jessie cautioned. “Some of
those wooden steps might be broken.”
“I’m okay,” Benny said. “See?” He stood
at the bottom of the steps, looking up. His
hands were behind his back, and he wore a
big grin.
“Good, Benny,” Henry said. “Here we
come.” They hurried down after Benny.
They all pitched in. The boards were removed
from the windows, letting the sunlight
stream in. They dusted and cleaned
until Benny said, “Isn’t it time for lunch
vet
Violet halted, wiping her forehead. “Yes,
I’m ready for a sandwich, too.” She sat
down, straightening the collar on her violet
T-shirt. Violet was her favorite color. She
even had wallpaper in her room at home with
violets on it.
“Lunch will be later,” Jessie said. “It’s only
eleven o’clock.”
Willingly, they straightened more books.
“Hook,” Benny said, holding up a volume
The Squirrel That Wasn’t There 23
of fairy tales. It was an old book with no
cover, but the pages were still in good condition.
“Read me this story, Jessie,” he said,
pointing to one.
Jessie, who was on her knees, stood up
and took a deep breath. “I’m ready for a
break. We'll sit over here by the circulation
desk, Benny. Ah, you’ve chosen Rumpelstiltskin.”
She began to read about the maiden
who was forced to weave all day, and the
threads she wove that turned to gold.
When Jessie finished the story, Benny
stood up. “Wow!” he exclaimed, “Rumpelstiltskin
was a mean man. Id like to spin
gold!”
“And what would you do with it, Benny?”
Jessie asked, a twinkle in her eyes.
“Yd fix up this old library for Grandfather,”
he said promptly.
“That’s a great idea,” Henry said, joining
them. “Right now, though, rest time is over.”
“Ts it lunchtime?” Benny asked.
“Not yet,” Henry chuckled, lightly touching
Benny’s chin with his fist. “We've got
hundreds of books to straighten.”
24 
“Okay,” Benny said cheerfully. “But I’m
going upstairs.”
“Will you place the books neatly on the
shelves?” Violet asked.
“T sure will!”
And before anyone could say another
word, Benny raced upstairs.
Jessie smiled. “I hope he’s this eager to
help by late afternoon.”
“Look at this old speller I found,” Violet
said, handing a thin book to Jessie.
Jessie wrinkled her small nose. “It smells
musty.” She handed the book back. “We'd
better finish these shelves.” She pulled out a
book and flipped through its pages. All at
once she gasped. “A moth! It flew right in
my face.”
Violet glimpsed a winged insect flying out
the window. “What next?” she asked, with
a sigh.
Suddenly Benny rushed downstairs. His
round face was pale, and his lower lip
trembled.
“Benny! What happened?” Jessie asked in
The Squirrel That Wasn’t There 25
a concerned tone. “You’re as white as a
sheet.”
“I-I heard a noise,” he said in a quavering
voice. “Someone is up there.”
Jessie glanced at Violet and Henry, then
turned back to Benny. “Just what did you
hear, Benny?”
“It was kind of a little sound, and then I
saw a big black shadow!”
“We'll all go upstairs and look around,”
Violet said. She put her arm around Benny’s
shoulders. “Maybe it was a squirrel hiding a
Wut: |
Benny shook his head. “No. Someone was
there! I know it!”
They went upstairs and searched every
row of books and every corner. “No one’s
here, Benny,” Jessie said, tousling her brother’s
hair. “Maybe the squirrel went out
through the broken windowpane.”
“M-maybe,” he stammered. But Benny
glanced at the stairs. Not for a minute did
he believe it was a squirrel. Violet, too, had
a nervous look on her face.
CHAPTER 4
The Missing Food
“Ives almost time for lunch,
Benny,” Henry announced. He wanted to
take Benny’s mind off the strange noise. Food
usually did the trick.
“Ts it time to eat?” Benny looked at Henry.
“T forgot.”
“You forgot lunch?” Jessie teased. “That’s
hard to believe.”
Benny was wiping one last shelf. But all
at once his rag snagged on a dark object in
back. “What’s this?” he said, holding up a
strange piece of metal. “Look, everybody!”
26
The Missing Food wy:
They gathered around Benny, and Henry
carefully examined what he had found.
“This is the hilt of a sword,” Jessie said.
“Whew! It must be covered with six coats of
grime! But where’s the rest of it?” she
wondered.
Violet reached for a crumpled piece of yellow
paper that dangled from the hilt by a
worn ribbon. Carefully she unfolded the
square sheet and began to read:
This sword is presented to Captain
Charles Howard for his bravery at
the Battle of Gettysburg. Your
strength and courage in leading the
Union soldiers against General
Robert E. Lee’s forces was a major
factor in winning this vital battle.
Signed,
General G.G. Meade
Union Commander
July 5, 1863
The children gasped.
28 
Henry sat down in a chair and turned the
hilt every which way.
“What’s Gettysburg?” Benny asked.
Henry leaned back. “Gettysburg, Pennsylvania,
was where one of the most important
battles of the Civil War was fought.”
“Wasn’t General Lee the Confederate
leader who led his army on an attack against
the North?” Violet asked.
“That’s right,” Jessie said. “If he had won,
the whole outcome of the war might have
been different. Our country would have been
split in two. Today the North would have
their own flag, and the South would have
theirs,
“Wow,” Benny whispered. “Then this is
valuable, isn’t it?”
“Yes, it is,” Henry said. “It would be even
more valuable if we could find the blade.”
Jessie took the sword hilt and wrapped it
in a towel. “We'll keep the hilt under the
desk. I’m certain we'll find the rest of the
sword.” She smiled. “In the meantime, we'll
have lunch. We'll fix our own sandwiches. I
The Missing Food 29
brought a jar of strawberry jam and a jar of
peanut butter.”
“And I brought the bread,” Violet said.
“And I brought the milk,” Henry added.
“And I brought the appetite!” Benny
yelled. He glanced around. “Good-bye,
squirrel, and don’t come back!”
After they had eaten, Jessie looked into her
backpack. “You know what? We still each
have an apple to eat.”
Benny said, “Not for me. I ate two
sandwiches.”
“Then Ill leave them here for our snack
tomorrow.” Jessie put the sack on top of the
circulation desk.
They continued to work until late afternoon.
Then Henry said, “Enough. We'll finish
tomorrow.”
They were all tired and dirty and glad to
return to their cozy house. The bunk beds
were made, the stove shone, and the old
pump in the back gave them fresh water to
wash in.
x ok x
30 
After dinner and a good night’s sleep, the
children awoke refreshed and hurried back
to the library. Jessie put their lunch basket
on the desk next to the apples. She checked
the sack and was astonished to see only three
apples. “That’s funny!” she said. “I know
there were four apples here yesterday.”
Benny laughed. “Jessie made a mistake,”
he sang out.
Jessie laughed, too. But she was uneasy.
She knew she had left four apples. One was
missing, and she didn’t think a squirrel had
carried away a big apple!
Jessie, however, began to work just as if
nothing was wrong, She put an old copy of
Alice in Wonderland in a box of what she
thought might be more valuable books. The
box was getting full.
“Tm tired!” Benny said after a while, sitting
down on the floor and folding his arms.
“Pm taking a rest!”
Violet sat in a chair. “That’s a good idea.”
She took a deep breath. “I’m tired of books!”
“I think we all need a break,” Henry said.
“Let’s bike down to the seashore.”
The Missing Food 31
“Perfect!” Jessie said. “First, though, let’s
set out our lunch. When we return we'll be
starving.”
Violet set one wrapped sandwich at each
place, and Henry put three glasses and Benny’s
pink cup around the thermos in the middle
of the big desk. Jessie put out napkins
and the three apples. She didn’t leave an apple
at her place.
Happily they biked down to the coast. It
was a two-mile ride, but they enjoyed it. The
day was crisp, and the air salty.
Once at the shore, they all took off their
shoes and ran along the sand. Then they
waded in the cold water, laughing and
splashing each other. White sea gulls dipped
and soared above them. Benny found a crab,
and Violet picked up three lovely shells.
Two, of course, had a lavender tint. Henry
and Jessie searched for interesting pieces of
driftwood.
Everyone soaked up the sunshine for over
an hour. Then, feeling refreshed, they
headed back to the library.
Once inside, they eagerly sat down to eat.
32 
Violet stared at her plate. It was empty.
Finally she said in a low voice, “Someone has
stolen my sandwich.”
Benny, Jessie, and Henry looked at Violet’s
plate. Sure enough, the sandwich had
disappeared.
Henry said nothing, but he glanced
around him. Benny was right, he thought.
There was a mysterious stranger in this
library!
Violet moved closer to Jessie. “I don’t like
this one bit,” she whispered, a worried frown
on her face.
Jessie nodded her head. “Neither do I,”
she said. “The door was locked, yet someone
was in here.”
“Well,” Henry said, breaking the silence.
“There’s only one thing to do. We'll need to
search the upstairs.”
Benny hung back. “Not me! I’m not going
up there again!”
“Henry’s right,” Jessie said. “We have to
find out who’s upitheres?
Violet said weakly, “Yes, I guess you're
right.” But clearly she didn’t want to.
CHAPTER 5
Miguel, the Runaway
Henry, his finger to his lips,
loosened his laces and removed his sneakers.
He motioned everyone else to do the same.
Next, he tiptoed upstairs, the others following.
The Aldens searched upstairs, every corner,
every nook, every cranny.
Jessie shrugged her slim _ shoulders.
“There’s no one here,” she whispered.
Benny, who stood by the window, suddenly
said in a loud, urgent whisper,
“Henry, over here.”
oe)
34 
In four strides, Henry was at Benny’s side.
Benny pointed to the low velvet curtain below
the window seat. Without a moment’s
hesitation, Henry yanked back the velvet seat
covers.
There, huddled in a corner, was a small
boy. His chin rested on his knees, and he
stared at them with a frightened expression.
“Come out of there!” Henry said sternly.
“Why are you hiding?”
“And why are you stealing our food?”
Benny asked, his hands on his hips.
The frightened boy crawled out into the
daylight. His face was thin and pale and a
thatch of black hair fell forward on his forehead.
He had the darkest brown eyes the
Alden children had ever seen. He bowed his
head. “I-I was hungry,” he said softly.
“But why are you hiding?” Violet repeated.
“We won’t hurt you.” Her voice was
gentle.
“Before you answer any questions,” Jessie
said, “I think that you . . .” She stopped.
“What’s your name>”
CNA: Miguel Morales,” the boy answered

36 
shyly. “I am ten years old.” A proud gleam
lighted his eyes.
“Well, Miguel,” Jessie said kindly, “would
you like a sandwich?”
Miguel nodded vigorously.
“I’m starved, too!” Benny said, rubbing
his stomach.
They all laughed, going downstairs.
Over a sandwich and a glass of milk, Miguel
told his story.
“TI am hiding because,” his voice caught in
his throat, “because I heard two men at the
bait shop in my town talking about how my
father’s fishing boat sank. They thought he
and two other fishermen drowned. I ran before
they could see me.” Tears filled his eyes,
and he put his sandwich down.
“When?” Jessie asked quietly.
“Two days ago.” Miguel looked at each
Alden. He knew they could be trusted. “You
see, I live with my father in Dalton, which
is many miles from here. My mother died
three years ago, when I was seven.”
“Poor Miguel,” Violet sympathized.
“How did you get here?”
M iguel, the Runaway 37
He glanced at her gratefully and went on.
“Tl walked for hours. Then I found this old
building. I crawled through the back window.”
"You seared ime!” Benny~ said _reproachfully.
“Sorry,” Miguel mumbled. “I didn’t mean
Lon
“So why are you hiding?” Henry asked.
“T have nowhere to go,” Miguel said, a tear
spilling down his cheek. “If my _ father
drowned, I'll be put in a home.”
“We won't let them!” Violet cried, her
small chin jutting out. “We'll protect you.
We know what it’s like to have to hide from
someone.”
“Do we!” Benny said. “I'll never forget
that old boxcar we lived in.”
Violet nodded. “We don’t have any parents,
either, Miguel, and our grandfather was
searching for us after our mother and father
died. He planned to force us to live with
him.”
“We thought he was a mean man,” Benny
said.
38 
Jessie smiled. “Grandfather Alden is just
the opposite. He’s very kind, and we have a
wonderful home with him now. So you see
something good can happen to you.”
Sadly, Miguel shook his head.
“Yes, it will,” Benny stated in a loud voice.
“T know it will!”
Miguel looked up and gave them a weak
smile. “Thanks, everyone. I know you won’t
turnanenn:
“Well,” Henry said slowly. “You can’t
stay here, Miguel. At least not forever.” He
smiled. “We'll do a little investigating.
Maybe your father was rescued. Are you
positive that he drowned?”
Miguel stared at Henry, his big eyes growing
bigger. “I —I don’t know,” Miguel
frowned. “I heard that The Maria sank and
that three men drowned, and I ran.”
“Your father’s boat is called The Maria?”
Jessie said.
Miguel nodded, unable to speak. Finally,
he said, “My father named it after my
mother.”
“I see,” Jessie said. She patted Miguel’s
Miguel, the Runaway 39
knee. “Whatever we decide you should do,
we'll talk it over with you first. Is that okay?”
“That’s okay,” Miguel said, giving her a
trembling smile.
“Then that’s settled,” Henry said. “Miguel,
do you want to help us straighten books
in this old library?”
“Oh, yes!” Miguel said eagerly. “I’m a
good worker!”
And Miguel was as good as his word. He
worked all afternoon, and when the sun set
he was glad to go back to the house with his
new friends. He sat behind Henry on his
bicycle.
At supper Jessie smiled at Miguel. He was
a good eater, like Benny. As she stacked the
dirty dishes, she felt a sense of relief. At last
the mystery was solved. No more strange
noises, no more shadows, no more missing
food.
CHAPTER 6
The Gray Glove
The next morning Henry biked
to Pete’s Café to buy milk and bread. But he
had a more important reason. He needed to
call Grandfather for advice.
Arriving at the café, Henry carefully
placed his bike next to the white building.
He entered the café and glanced around. Besides
Pete there were only two other men,
one at a table, and the other at the counter.
“Hi, Henry, my boy,” Pete called. He was
drinking a cup of coffee at the counter. “How
40
The Gray Glove 41
do you like living in my house? Are you
taking good care of it?”
Henry smiled. “We sure are.” He liked old
Pete. He’d been a friend of Grandfather’s for
years.
“IT knew you kids would.” Pete chuckled.
“What brings you out so early, Henry?”
Henry smiled. “I need to buy bread and
milk.”
While Pete was taking the milk out of the
refrigerator, Henry called Grandfather.
“Henry!” Grandfather Alden said in a delighted
voice, “I’m glad to hear from you. Is
everything all right?”
“Fine,” Henry said, clearing his throat.
“We found a small boy hiding in the library.”
“Oh?” Grandfather said, waiting for
Henry to continue.
“His name is Miguel Morales, and he’s
scared that he might be sent to a home. He’s
only ten, and he’s all alone.”
“Well,” Grandfather began.
But Henry hurried on before Grandfather
could interrupt. “You see Miguel’s father was
42 
a fisherman, and his boat sank.”
“Was it The Maria?”
“Yes,” Henry said, surprised. “How did
you knowe”
“T heard the news on the radio. There were
three fishermen on the boat.” .
“Yes, that’s what Miguel said,” Henry
answered.
“T’ll check with the Coast Guard and find
out if anyone was rescued. Don’t worry,
Henry, we won't let Miguel be taken to a
home.” 3
Henry sighed with relief. Grandfather
could always be depended upon to help.
“And what else have you been up to?”
Grandfather Alden asked. _
“Oh,” Henry said. “I almost forgot. Benny
discovered the hilt of a Civil War sword on
the library shelves. We found a letter from
General Meade awarding the sword to a
Charles Howard. Captain Howard had been
a courageous soldier at the Battle of Gettysburg.”
“A Civil War sword!” Grandfather
sounded excited. “That could be a very valThe
Gray Glove +5
uable find. Many museums would want to
put it on display.” He paused. “It could even
help the library become a landmark. But
didn’t you find the rest of the sword?”
“No,” Henry said. “Not yet. There are
plenty of shelves, though, that we haven’t
cleaned. We might still find it.”
“T hope it turns up,” Grandfather said.
“You’ve done a lot of work at the library.
Are you and Violet and Jessie and Benny
ready to come home?”
“Not yet,” Henry said. “The library is
getting clean and organized.”
Grandfather chuckled. “All right, Henry.
You take care. I'll be down next weekend to
visit you. In the meantime, I want you all to
bike in and have a good lunch at Pete’s. And
don’t worry about the bill.”
“Thanks, Grandfather. We'd like that!
Good-bye. We'll see you soon.” Henry
turned back to Pete and was pleased that his
groceries were already packed.
He pedaled back to the cabin. Benny was
waiting outside.
“I’m thirsty,” he complained.
df 
“Why don’t you drink a glass of water?”
Henry teased.
Benny grinned, and his brown eyes sparkled.
“You know what I’m thirsty for!”
“Oh!” Henry said, slapping his forehead.
“Tl know what it is. It’s cranberry juice!”
“No, it’s not!” Benny shouted.
“Could it be this?” Henry asked as he lifted
out a gallon carton of milk.
“Yes, yes,” Benny said gleefully. “Is there
bread, too?”
“Sure thing.” Henry laughed as Benny
held the door open for him.
Inside, they all had bread and milk. Everyone
laughed at Miguel, who had a white rim
of milk on his face. Miguel smiled, too. He
liked his new friends.
“Is everyone ready to get to work?” Jessie
asked.
“Tam,” Violet answered.
Oatley Henry added.
“Me, too,” Benny and Miguel echoed.
“Then let’s get started,” Jessie said with a
smile. Her brown shiny hair was tied back
with a blue ribbon.
The Gray Glove oS
*k KK Of
Once in the library they rolled up their
sleeves and started to work.
It wasn’t long before Miguel let out a yell.
“Look! This piece of metal was behind the
books!” ‘Triumphantly he held up part of the
rusty sword.
Henry examined the long metal piece,
then patted Miguel on the back. “This is the
middle of our sword. Now we need to find
the point of the blade, and our sword will
be complete!”
“Hurrah for Miguel!” Benny shouted.
“Good for you, Miguel,” Jessie said.
Violet patted Miguel’s hand.
“Tt’s almost time for lunch,” Henry said.
“We'll celebrate Miguel’s find with a meal at
Petes
Cheerfully they biked to the café. Henry
had wrapped the sword part and placed it in
his bicycle’s basket. “I’m not letting this out
of my sight!” he promised.
At Pete’s Café, they ordered lobster, potatoes,
salad, and apple pie 4 la mode. Pete
was pleased to meet Miguel, the Aldens’ new

The Gray Glove a7
friend. Since Miguel came from another
town, Pete didn’t recognize him. Pete was
also pleased to see the children’s good
appetites.
Benny leaned back, patting his stomach.
“That was a good lunch!”
Pete burst out laughing. “I’ve never seen
such big eaters. You all deserve a treaty”
Violet was puzzled. “Just for eating so
much?” she questioned.
“No, just for being such nice children,”
Pete answered. “How would you like a ride
in my fishing boat?”
“Oh, yes!” cried Benny. “T love to ride in
a boat.”
After they all boarded Captain Pete’s red
fishing boat, Pete started the motor, and they
set off over the waves. The whitecaps slapped
against the boat, sending the spray flying.
Sometimes the water splashed over the sides
of the boat.
They rode way out into the bay. When
Benny shaded his eyes, he could barely see
the café. It was only a white speck.
For over an hour the boat rode the waves.
48 
Then Pete made a wide circle and headed
back to the dock.
“That was fun!” Jessie said.
“Yes, sir!” Henry agreed, resting his hands
on Benny’s shoulders.
“Can we do it again?” Benny asked.
Pete chuckled. “Anytime, mates. Just let
me know.” He tied up the boat at the dock,
and they jumped out.
Violet, the wind whipping through her
long brown hair, said, “Thank you, Captain
Pete,”
“You're welcome, little lady,” Pete answered.
His wide grin lit up his wrinkled
face.
“We'd like to take you up on your offer
for another ride,” Henry said. “We had a
good time.” He glanced at Miguel. “Did you
have fun, Miguel?”
“Oh, yes,” Miguel responded quietly, but
he didn’t look at Henry. Jessie noticed Miguel’s
sad, thin face.
“Miguel, we need to return to the library,”
Jessie said. She knew that Miguel
was thinking of his father and the lost fishing
The Gray Glove 49
boat. “Do you feel like working?”
He nodded. “I want to help,” he said.
Except for Miguel, the Aldens mounted
their bicycles. Miguel leapt up on the seat
behind Henry, and they left for the library
in high spirits.
Pushing open the library’s door, they each
went to the spot where they’d been working.
Henry had filled one box with valuable books
and was ready to start a second one.
Jessie hummed softly as she dusted off
books. Suddenly, she stopped. “Look,” she
said in a low voice. From her fingertips she
dangled a gray work glove.
Henry took the glove with black stitching
around each finger. “This is a brand-new
glove,” he observed. “It’s barely worn.”
Jessie said, “Someone’s been here . . . and
left the glove.”
Benny, Miguel, and Violet joined Henry
and Jessie. No one said a word. Frightened,
Benny glanced over his shoulder.
The mystery wasn’t solved after all, Jessie
thought. An intruder had invaded their library.
A chill ran up her spine.
CHAPTER 7
The Strange Little Tune
Henry held up the gray glove
and shrugged. “Someone was poking around
in the library and forgot his glove, that’s all.
It’s nothing to worry about.” But secretly he
wondered who it belonged to, and how the
person had gotten in. He thought of the conversation
he’d overheard in Pete’s Café, but
he didn’t want to frighten the others by telling
them.
Jessie smiled. “You're right, Henry. One
glove doesn’t mean a thing. Let’s go back to
the house and have a nice supper. We’ve done
SO
The Strange Little Tune oy
enough work today.” She tried to sound unconcerned,
but she was worried, too. Who
was nearby?
Henry tucked the glove in his back pocket
and threw his arm around his little brother.
“What’s the matter, Benny? You're not
scared of an old glove, are you?”
Benny stood with his sturdy legs apart and
his arms folded. “I’m not scared if you’re
not!”
“Atta, boy!” Henry said, tousling Benny’s
hair. He opened the door and stepped out
into the setting sun. The others followed.
The sun’s rays gave the library a rosy glow.
Carefully Henry locked the door, then
twisted the knob to be sure that it was secure.
It wouldn’t be easy for an intruder to get in
now!
That night the Aldens and Miguel ate peanut
butter, crackers, and milk. They weren't
very hungry after their big lobster lunch.
Benny and Miguel went to bed early.
“I’m filling the pitcher with fresh water,”
Jessie said, going out into the night. Darkness
surrounded her.

The Strange Little Tune $3
As she pumped the water, Jessie suddenly
stopped.
She heard a low humming.
She listened more closely, but the humming
stopped. All she heard was the scuffling
of an animal in the leaves.
All at once the low off-key humming
started again. What a strange tune! This time
she realized it was a person. Was someone
watching her? Her pulse quickened. She
wished Henry or Violet had come outside
wiihehera Tenry, sshe-calledthen, “$Violet,”
but her throat had tightened. All that
came out was a croak.
The weird humming was loud and clear,
but it soon faded. Jessie clutched the pitcher
to her chest and raced toward the cabin. She
stumbled on a branch, but kept running. The
humming was very faint now. Fearfully, she
glanced around. Was that a shadow moving
up the path toward the library? Or was it
her imagination?
With her heart pounding in her ears, she
frantically threw open the door and flew into
the room.
54 
“What’s wrong, Jessie?” Violet said, running
to her side. “You're as white as your Tshirt.
“S-someone was humming a funny tune.”
She could barely get the words out as she set
down the pitcher with a trembling hand. “I
think I heard him going up the path toward
the old library! I think I saw his shadow!”
Henry leapt up. “We'll see about this
prowler!” he said angrily, grabbing the iron
skillet from the stove and dashing outdoors.
If he came upon the intruder, he wouldn’t
know what hit him! Bravely Henry silently
stalked the stranger. Twice he circled the
cabin, the skillet held high. Even though Jessie
had said she’d seen the prowler going
toward the library, Henry carefully investigated
around the house. Then he ran a short
way up the gravel path, but didn’t see anyone.
Not even Jessie’s imagined shadow.
Nor did he hear anything. The humming
had stopped. He listened intently, but all
he heard was the breeze rustling through
the trees.
He returned to the house. “J didn’t hear
The Strange Little Tune SS
anything, Jessie. Maybe it was the hum of
an insect.”
Jessie shook her head. “No,” she said positively.
“It was someone humming! And the
person was nearby, watching me. Then the
humming grew faint. I saw his outline as he
went toward the library.” She poured a glass
of water for her dry throat and turned her
big brown eyes on Henry. “I’m certain he’s
after something!”
“T think I know what it is,” Henry said
thoughtfully. “When I called Grandfather, I
_ told him about the piece of sword we’d
found. Anyone could have overheard me.
But don’t worry,” he said in a confident tone.
“The sword is always with me! At night it’s
under my pillow, and during the day I take
it with me on my bike. The sword is wrapped
sO no one can see what it is.”
Quickly he told Violet and Jessie about the
two men he’d overheard in Pete’s Café. “But
whoever that thief is can’t be our guy. How
would he know about the sword?” He spoke
in a low voice so as not to wake Benny and
Miguel.
56 
“He couldn’t,” Jessie added.
“What should we do?” Violet asked. “Is it
safe to stay here? I hate to leave until we
finish at the library.”
“Then we won't leave!” Jessie said in a firm
voice. There was a stubborn gleam in her
dark eyes. “We have to find the third part of
the sword. Once we find it, we'll go home.”
“You're right!” Violet said with a tight little
smile. “No one can drive us away after
we've worked hard and found the sword.
The sword is ours!”
They went to bed, and Jessie pulled the
blanket up to her chin. Even though everything
was silent, she could still hear that awful
weird tune in her head.
The next morning the sun washed their
fears away.
Henry ate an early breakfast, then scraped
back his chair and stood up. “I’m going to
make a quick trip to the marina and phone
Grandfather,” he said to Jessie.
“Do you think he’ll have any news about
Miguel’s father?”
The Strange Little Tune a
“I hope so. Grandfather was going to contact
the Coast Guard.”
On his way to the café, without warning,
the sun dipped behind the clouds. The sky
became a gloomy gray. Henry pedaled faster
when he heard a low rumble of distant
thunder.
Entering Pete’s Café, Henry saw Pete at
the counter pouring a cup of coffee for a customer.
He looked up at Henry’s entrance.
“Hi, Henry! Feel like a boat ride?”
“Not today.” Henry smiled.
Old Pete chuckled. “You show good sense,
boy.” He pointed to the large window and
the ocean beyond. “Look at those waves!”
Henry watched the waves pound against
the stone pier. The whitecaps rolled in,
churning toward the shore and ending in
foamy puddles. The sky was almost black
with the wind blowing from the north. The
thunder boomed.
“Yup,” Pete said. “Even the Coast Guard
won’t come out in this weather.”
Henry excused himself to phone Grandfather
Alden.
58 
After a few rings, Grandfather’s warm
voice came on the line. “Henry! I’m glad you
called. I contacted the Coast Guard, and they
informed me that two fishermen were rescued
from The Maria.”
“Only two?” Henry asked, and his heart
sank.
“Ves, I’m afraid the third man drowned,”
Grandfather said gravely.
“Was it Miguel’s father?” Henry asked,
dreading to hear the answer.
“They won’t give out the names of the men
until all the families are notified. The survivors
are on Bear Island and as soon asthe storm
lets up, they’ll be brought to Pete’s marina.”
“Thanks, Grandfather.”
“Depending on the weather, I'll be down
to see you on Friday.”
“That will be great, Grandfather,” Henry
said. “Everyone wants to see you.”
“Good, good,” Grandfather said.
Henry said good-bye. After exchanging a
few words with Pete, he biked back to the
house. He hated to tell Miguel about the one
drowned fisherman, but he had a right to
The Strange Little Tune 59
know. After all, his father could be one of the
rescued men.
Entering the cabin, Henry sat down at the
table next to Miguel. He quietly told him
that only two men had been rescued.
Miguel stared at him, biting his lower lip.
‘“Wh-what were the names of the two fishermen?”
he whispered.
“No names have been released yet,” said
Henry, reaching out and putting a hand on
Miguel’s shoulder. “Until this storm subsides,
the rescued men will stay at the Coast
_ Guard station on Bear Island.” A stab of
lightning lit up the room.
Jessie stood behind Miguel. “It will be all
right,” she soothed. “I’m certain one of the
men will be your father.”
Miguel glanced back at her. “But what if
he isn’t?” he said in a trembling voice. “My
father knew how to swim, but what good is
that in a stormy sea?” His lips tightened, and
his body was rigid. He tried not to cry.
“He had a life preserver, didn’t he?”
asked Violet, coming from the kitchen and
sitting down. Her voice was soft, and
60 
her eyes were filled with compassion.
“He had a life preserver, but. . .” his voice
faltered. “Oh, I don’t know what to think.”
Miguel lowered his eyes. His small face
twisted with pain. “What if he drowned? My
poor father. I-I love him.”
“No matter what happens,” Henry said,
“we'll stick by you!”
“You bet we will!” Benny echoed, standing
in the doorway. He frowned, and his
eyes were sad. All at once his face brightened.
“I know your dad was saved. I feel it
in my bones!” |
Miguel smiled at Benny. “Thanks, Benny.
Thanks, everyone! I know you all hope for
the best.” But his heart thudded against his
ribs. He had a feeling that his father was
gone, and he’d never see him again. He
jumped up and turned his back on his
friends. How could he repay the Aldens’
kindness? He couldn’t stay with them forever.
He made up his mind. If he heard bad
news, he’d run away. He’d have to be on his
own again. His heartbeat matched the thunder
that rolled outside!
CHAPTER 8
The Locked Door
That afternoon it was so windy
the Aldens left their bikes at home. They
_ each struggled against the ferocious wind to
reach the library. Violet and Miguel held
Benny’s hands. Henry, leaning against the
wind, was the first to the library. He unlocked
the door and pushed his way in. The
other children followed.
“Whew, what a storm,” Jessie said, collapsing
in a chair. “I need a rest.”
“Me, too,” Violet agreed.
“Not me!” Benny said. “I’m ready to
work!”
61
62 
Henry laughed as he removed his rain
jacket. “It’s no wonder you're ready to work,
Benny. You had a little help in fighting the
storm!”
“I know.” Benny grinned impishly. “You
look tired. Go and rest, Henry, and I'll
straighten a pile of books.”
“You do that,” Henry said. “But Pll be
working!” He peered at the nearest shelf. ‘To
his astonishment, he saw very fresh fingerprints.
Could they belong to the person Jessie
had heard humming the night before?
Casually, Henry piled books over the telltale
prints. There was no sense in alarming
everyone, he thought. Why was someone
searching the library? Was he looking for the
sword?
He turned around and faced his sisters and
Miguel. “Let’s work especially hard today
and try to find the missing sword point. I
think we’re all ready to go home.”
“Not until we find the whole sword,
though,” Benny shouted as he came racing
downstairs. He smiled at Violet and Jessie.
“Right?”
The Locked Door 63
“Right,” Jessie answered, laughing at Benny’s
determination.
“And I don’t want to quit, either,” Miguel
said, stepping forward. “Until I find out
what happened to my father, Pll stay and
help everyone. You've been kind to me.” He
smiled.
“Good!” exclaimed Henry. “We're kind to
you because you're a splendid fellow,
Miguel.”
Miguel felt safe and secure with the Aldens.
He wished he would never have to
leave,
For a moment, no one said a word. Their
hearts went out to Miguel.
Henry broke the silence. “T’'ll work upstairs
and sort through the books.”
“May I go with you?” Benny asked. “I can
help you, Henry.”
“[’m sure you can,” Henry said with a
chuckle.
All afternoon they worked — Benny and
Henry upstairs, and Violet, Jessie, and Miguel
downstairs. Almost every bookshelf was
neat and clean. The books were upright on
64 
the shelves, but not a clue turned up as to
where.the sword point could be.
Finally, Jessie stopped. She glanced at the
rattling windows and the rain pelting against
the glass panes. “I’m ready to go home,” she
said. “Are you, Violet?”
Violet rose to her feet, several volumes in
her hand. Her face was smudged, and her
shirt wrinkled. “Yes,” she said. “I’m more
than ready.”
“Did I hear someone say they wanted to
go back to the house?” Henry questioned.
“In this rain?”
“I don’t care how wet I get,” Benny said,
dragging himself down the steps. “I’m hungry
and tired, and I want to go home.”
“Shall we make a run for it?” Henry asked.
“If we do, we'll get soaked.”
“It doesn’t matter,” Jessie replied. “I don’t
want to stay in this library all night.” She
flung her blue coat over her shoulders. “Just
think! The person I heard humming might
stay here at night.”
Henry gave her a sharp look, but soon
realized she hadn’t seen the new fingerprints.
The Locked Door 65
He helped Benny with his red raincoat, then
struggled into his own.
Violet buttoned her lavender raincoat but
propped her purple umbrella by the door.
There was no sense in letting the wind whip
it inside out. Miguel wore a yellow slicker,
just like a fisherman, which he had hidden
under the window seat.
“Okay,” Henry yelled. “Let’s run all the
way to the house.”
With a whoop, Benny was the first to rush
out the door. The raindrops fell faster now,
_ but Benny didn’t care. He lifted his head to
the rain, enjoying the fresh drops on his face.
“Pll race you!” he challenged, but his
words were lost in the roar of the wind.
Benny raced down the path. All that could
be seen below his red rain gear were his
sneakers.
Everyone ran through the mud and the
rain. When they reached the house, Benny
splashed about in a mud puddle. “Let’s stay
outside and play in the rain.”
“Not a chance,” Jessie said, shivering from
the wet cold.

The Locked Door 67
“T thought you were tired,” Violet said to
Benny softly, her eyes twinkling.
“I was,” Benny said. “The rain made me
awake! It was fun!”
Miguel, drops of water glistening on his
long lashes, laughed, too. “It was fun, wasn’t
itey
“All right, you two. Time to remove your
wet things. Go upstairs and get into your
dry pajamas,” Jessie ordered with a smile.
“Okay, Jessie.” And Benny was upstairs
before Henry had his coat off.
Jessie built a blazing fire in the fireplace
while everyone changed into warm dry
clothes.
Henry, in jeans and a sweater, and Violet,
in a violet blouse and jeans, took the leftover
soup out of the refrigerator and set it on the
stove.
While the soup was simmering, everyone
drank hot apple cider and sat before the fireplace.
They felt cozy and warm as they
watched the orange flames.
In the morning, feeling refreshed after a
68 
good night’s sleep, they had hot cereal, buttered
toast, and cocoa for breakfast, and were
ready for a day at the library. Maybe today
they would find the rest of the sword. The
wind still howled, but the rain had stopped.
“Do you think the Coast Guard will bring
in the two fishermen today?” Miguel asked
in a low tone, barely above a whisper. His
father was always in his thoughts.
Henry glanced out the window at the gray
sky and the swaying tree branches. “Not today,
Miguel. The wind isn’t as bad as yesterday,
but the ocean waves are too high. I’m
sure, though, your father will be found safe
and sound in a day or two.”
Miguel met Henry’s eyes and his voice was
husky. “I wish I were as certain as you that
he’s alive. I pray you're right!”
Benny piped up, changing the subject.
“That was a good breakfast.” He jumped up
and ran to the door. “I want to see how windy
it is.”
“Careful you’re not blown over,” Henry
teased.
Benny tried to open the door, but it
The Locked Door 69
wouldn’t budge. He leaned against it with
his shoulder and shoved as hard as he could.
The door was stuck fast!
“Henry,” Benny panted. “The door won’t
open!”
Henry laughed. “The wind is strong,
Benny, but I don’t think it’s that strong.” He
turned the handle and pushed against the
door, but Henry couldn't open it, either. He
pushed three times, but the door remained
shut.
“Let’s all try,” Jessie suggested. All five
put their shoulders to the door, but it remained
closed.
Puzzled, Henry shook his head. “Maybe
something has blown in front of the door and
jammed it shut.”
“T don’t think so,” Jessie said. Worry lines
creased her forehead.
“I need to check the door from the outside,”
Henry said, “but I have a problem.”
He stared at the narrow windows. “The windows
are too small. I can’t squeeze through.”
“T could!” Benny shouted. “Let me! Let
me!
70 
Henry nodded. “Okay, Benny, you're the
only one small enough to crawl through.”
Henry opened a window and lifted Benny
up. Benny wiggled through the narrow opening
and dropped to the ground.
Benny hurried around the cabin to the
front door. There, to his surprise, was a
heavy branch shoved through the door han- -
dle. No wonder it wouldn’t turn. He tugged
with all his might and was able to pull the
branch out. “You can open the door now,”
he yelled.
Henry opened the door, and Benny
showed him the branch that had locked them
in.
“Someone deliberately tried to keep us
from getting out, didn’t they?” Violet asked.
“I’m afraid so,” Henry answered.
Jessie’s throat tightened, and her mouth
was dry. Was someone trying to keep them
from getting to the library? She pulled her
sweater tighter around her. What would they
find when they reached the library?
CHAPTER 9
The U. ‘pside-down Mess
The day before, the Aldens and
Miguel had run up the rain-splashed path,
not minding the wet and cold. This morning,
however, after they had escaped the house’s
bolted door, they walked up the path to the
library without a word. They all were worrying
about who had tried to keep them in
Pete’s house.
Henry took out the library key to unlock
the door, but as he came closer, he noticed
the door was ajar.
He hesitated. “Someone might be in there.
il
72 
Keep a sharp lookout,” he advised.
“D-do you think we should go in?” Violet
asked timidly.
“We've worked very hard,” Henry said
calmly. “Do you want to stop nowP”
“No,” Jessie said. “Let’s just look in.”
Henry pushed the door open. He listened
carefully for any sounds. When he heard
nothing, he stepped inside. The others followed,
peering around.
Entering the library, Jessie stopped. Her
hand flew to her mouth at the sight that
greeted her. “Oh, no,” she wailed. “Look at
this mess!”
Violet was behind her. “Who would do
such a thing?” she asked in a shocked voice.
Miguel’s face paled. “The books are scattered
everywhere!” He stepped over a stack
of books. “Look! The desk is upside down.”
Books were upside down, too. Books were
right side up, standing on end, and tossed in
corners. Leaves of books had been ripped out
and cast here and there. Some pages had been
crumpled, others torn to shreds. There was
no doubt about it! Someone had locked them

he 
in Pete’s house to gain time to search. The
books, the shelves, and every nook had been
explored.
“All our hard work is wasted!” Violet said.
Speechless, Henry stood with his hands
on his hips, shaking his head in disbelief. He
picked up a tattered book.
Benny gazed at Henry. “This is bad, isn’t
its?
Henry paused, then spoke in a calm manner.
“It’s bad, Benny, but nothing that can’t
be fixed. Books are everywhere, but there’s
no major damage.”
Jessie rose. “We'll need to put the books
back on the shelf, that’s all.” She rolled up
her sleeves.
Miguel held up a book, studying it curiously.
“Where did these jagged holes come
from?”
Henry reached for the book and examined
the pages. “Our prowler,” he observed, “has
done this on purpose! He’s used scissors to
slash these books!”
“Who would do such a terrible thing?”
asked Miguel.
The Upside-down Mess 7S
“Someone who is angry because he can’t
find what he wants,” Jessie answered. Her
eyebrows knit together in a frown. “The intruder
not only balled up pages and tossed
them aside, but stabbed the bigger books
with his scissors or a knife!”
“What a shame,” Violet said. “He must
have been furious when he didn’t find what
he was hunting for.”
“T need to check upstairs and see how many
books have beenruined up there,” Henry said.
Jessie moved to his side. She anxiously
chewed on her underlip. “Grandfather will
be so disappointed if the library isn’t a
landmark.”
Henry smiled grimly. “I know, Jessie. It’s
pretty discouraging, but we’ll clean up this
mess.” He wheeled about and_ hurried
upstairs.
Soon Henry returned. “Good news! The
upstairs has hardly been touched. The intruder
only tore apart one shelf.”
Violet tilted her head. “We must have interrupted
whoever it was,” she said
thoughtfully.
76 
“You're right, Violet,” Jessie said. “When
he heard us coming, he must have dashed
out the backdoor.”
“Do you think the awful person will come
back?” Benny asked. His brown eyes were
big.
“He probably will, Benny. He wants that
sword! I’m sure of it.” Henry tossed a ruined
book on top of the damaged pile.
“Do you think we should call the police?”
Violet asked.
“There’s no phone here or in the cabin,”
Henry said. “Let’s wait. The police would
probably want us to stay out of the library.”
For the rest of the day they tackled the
books. Book after book was put back on the
shelves. Others were stacked neatly in piles.
By the end of the day the floor had been
cleared. Jessie had collected the damaged
books in a box. Henry had swept the floor
of all the torn pages and debris.
Miguel leaned backward, then forward.
“My back hurts,” he complained with a
smile. “I feel good, though. Look how much
we've done!”
The Upside-down Mess a
Henry smiled at Miguel, placing a hand
on his shoulder. “I don’t know what we’d
have done without you!”
Miguel grinned, happy to be needed.
“TH lock the door,” Henry said, “but I’m
not sure it will keep out the stranger. I’m
willing to bet he has a passkey. He must
have.”
They left for the house, tired and discouraged.
Henry kept his thoughts to himself,
but certain questions ran through his
mind. What if they returned tomorrow and
the books were topsy-turvy again? How
could they go through all this work another
time? Someone seemed to know their every
move. And what if that someone found the
missing sword piece before they did? And
what if he didn’t? If the intruder was desperate
enough for the sword, there was no
telling what he might do!
Jessie caught up with Henry. “At least the
intruder didn’t find what he was searching
for.”
“No, Jessie,” Henry responded. “But I'm
afraid he might become dangerous.” He
78 
frowned. “Maybe we'd better pack up and
go home.”
“We've come this far,” Jessie said softly.
“We mustn’t give up now!”
Henry gave her a grateful glance. “I was
hoping you’d say that!” He patted his back
pocket. “The letter is with me all the time,
and the sword is either under my pillow or
on my bike or in the library when I’m
working.”
Violet lagged behind, picking wildflowers.
She loved flowers, especially violet ones. The
others were far ahead, and the sun was setting.
She felt uneasy. She’d better catch up
with everyone. All at once she heard a faint
noise in back of her. Someone was following
her! Heavy steps on the pebble path made a
crunching noise. She whirled about. A shadowy
figure dived into the shrubs. Violet
raced toward the others. *Henpy}'\ she
called. “Wait!”
They stopped. “What is it, Violet?”
Henry asked.
“A man! I saw a man duck into the
bushes.” She was out of breath, but felt betThe
Upside-down Mess 79
ter surrounded by her family and Miguel.
“Don’t worry!” Benny said. “We'll protect
you!”
Henry chuckled nervously. “We’ve almost
reached the house. We’ll be safe there.” But
his heart was racing, too. One more day, he
vowed, and they must leave! Things were
getting out of hand!
That night no one slept well.
Benny thrashed about in bed and pounded
his pillow. Then he lay very still. What was
that click? But it was only his chattering
teeth.
Miguel thought he heard the stranger
trying to break in, but it was only the
branches scraping against the window.
Henry thought he heard a scratching
noise, but it was only a mouse.
Jessie thought she heard someone breaking
the lock, but it was only the dying embers
in the fireplace that crackled and popped.
Violet sat straight up in bed. Was someone
ripping and tearing something? No, she
thought, lying back. It was probably her
imagination again.
CHAPTER 10
The Last Missing Prece
When dawn broke, Henry
awakened and jumped out of bed. Quietly
he went into the kitchen. Jessie joined him.
Then Violet and Miguel came in.
And last, Benny slowly shuffled toward
them. He gave a wide yawn and rubbed his
half-closed eyes. “Is it time to get up?” he
asked sleepily.
“No,” Henry said. “I couldn't sleep.”
“Neither could I,” Jessie said.
“Me neither,” Violet echoed.
“I woke up lots of times,” Miguel said.
50
The Last Missing Piece 81
‘l didn’t sleep very good either!” Benny
said.
In the half light Henry moved toward the
fireplace. Suddenly he halted, unable to go
another step.
Jessie, who was beside him, stopped also.
“The chair!” she exclaimed. “It’s ripped to
shreds.”
“So it wasn’t my imagination after all,”
Violet said in a husky voice, a hand flying
to her flushed cheek. “To think the intruder
was in the house while we were sleeping!” She
shivered, hating to think how near a stranger
had been.
“Well,” Henry said, trying to laugh, “it
looks like Pete has one ruined chair.”
“Tl say,” Benny said ina low tone. “The
chair is all stuffing and springs.”
They stared at the damage, not quite
knowing how to handle this.
Jessie was the first to stir. She forced a
cheerful smile. “There’s not much we can do
about the damage.” She hesitated, then continued,
“Besides, that old chair was so caved
in that you almost sank to the floor.”

The Last Missing Piece 83
“Oh, Pete won’t care. It’s just the thought
of someone. . .” Henry didn’t finish.
“Someone being so close,” Miguel finished.
“Right,” Violet said. Her face was pale.
“Shall we go for help?”
Jessie, attempting to keep her smile, said,
“If word gets out there’s a prowler, we won't
be able to finish.”
Henry nodded. “We'll be very careful. We
have to keep our eyes open every minute,
and we have to stay together.”
“Will he come back tonight?” Benny asked
in a small frightened voice, his eyes fastened
on Henry’s face.
They all shifted their feet uneasily, but
Henry was positive. “Absolutely not! We
only have one more night here, and we'll take
turns standing guard. We'll work in the library
today and if we don’t find the missing
sword, then IJ guess it will never be found!”
Jessie leaned down, looking at Benny.
“You must eat some breakfast, Benny.”
Benny shook his head.
“T can’t believe you're not hungry,” Miguel
84 
said with concern in his dark eyes. “You
must eat so you can help at the library.”
“Tm tired of working in the library.”
“Then you can be our lookout today,”
Henry said. “You won’t have to lift books
anymore.”
“Really?” he said, slowly weakening.
pviesee)| ssi: said:
Benny stared at Jessie with his big brown
eyes. “Can we have pancakes?” He smiled
impishly.
Violet laughed. “That’s just the breakfast
I was thinking of,” she said.
/Ghen, lo guessalm hungry, after all,”
Benny said, going into the kitchen.
They all pitched in, making the morning
meal. Henry set the table, Jessie made the
pancakes, Violet poured the milk, and Miguel
set the syrup and butter on the table.
Benny folded napkins and set one at each
place, but every once in a while he stopped
and glanced at the ruined chair.
Everyone ate a hearty breakfast, trying to
forget the intruder who had been in their
house.
The Last Missing Piece 85
They decided to bike to the library and on
the way Henry began to sing, and soon
everyone joined in. In the bright sunlight,
the stranger didn’t seem so ominous. Besides,
it was their last day, and tonight the lookout
would warn them if anyone approached the
little house.
When they reached the library, Henry
paused before opening the door. What if it
was a mess again? He shook his head to get
rid of the awful picture of yesterday’s chaos,
and flung open the door.
All was as they had left it yesterday.
Everyone crowded behind Henry, peeking
over his shoulder.
“Tt’s all right,” he laughed. “You can come
1s.
Row after row of books lined the shelves.
Boxes of books, tied with string and labeled,
hadn’t been opened.
“Wow,” Benny exclaimed. He beamed his
approval.
“Doesn’t everything look grand?” Henry
said, surveying the room with his hands on
his hips.
86 
Jessie stood beside him. “All our hard
work has paid off.”
“Wait until Grandfather sees how lovely
the library looks,” Violet said with a sweet
smile.
“What’s the matter, Miguel?” Henry motioned
the boy forward. “You helped in this,
too, you know.”
“It’s the nicest library I’ve ever seen,” Miguel
said, but he still hung back.
Jessie and Violet exchanged glances. They
knew why he wasn’t in a happy mood. The
wind had died down, and now Miguel would
have to face the two fishermen who would
soon be brought to shore. Miguel might be
the happiest boy in the world or the most
heartbroken. Jessie took Miguel’s hand, pulling
him into the group.
“We only have the upstairs and we'll be
finished,” Henry said briskly, attempting to
distract Miguel so he wouldn’t think too
much.
“There aren’t many books upstairs,” Jessie
said lightly, already mounting the steps.
“Now, Benny,” Henry said gravely. “You
The Last Missing Piece 87
stay downstairs and be our guard. If anyone
approaches, you yell a warning.”
“Okay,” Benny said, feeling important.
He climbed atop the circulation desk. “I'll
sit right here and look out the window,” he
said, swinging his legs.
“Good boy,” Henry said. “We don’t need
to worry with you as our lookout.”
“You bet you don’t!” Benny grinned, glad
not to have to handle any more books. Being
a guard was much easier.
Violet patted Benny’s knee. “We shouldn't
_ be too long.”
“That’s okay,” Benny answered, resting
his chin in his hand and staring intently out
the window.
Henry, Violet, and Miguel went upstairs
where Jessie was already straightening
books.
After two hours of hard work, their job
was almost ended.
Suddenly they heard a thud. Then
another.
“What was that?” Violet asked in a shaky
voice.
88 
Henry laughed. “Did you see the rubber
ball sticking out of Benny’s back pocket?”
“Qh, is that it?” Violet said in relief, listening
to the steady bounce of the ball.
All at once the noise stopped.
They all listened.
Benny shouted, “Hurry, hurry! See what
I’ve found.”
They rushed downstairs.
Benny, bending over a hole in the floor,
pulled and tugged at something below the
floorboards.
“What is it, Benny?” Jessie questioned, her
brown eyes sparkling with curiosity.
“T was playing with the ball, and it rolled
into the hole,” Benny panted. His face was
beet-red, and he grunted with huge effort.
He gave one final pull and lifted out a rusty
black object.
“What in the world did you find?” Violet
asked...” aw
“Tt looks like the point of the sword,” Miguel
said.
Jessie eagerly seized the metal from
Benny. “Jt is!” she cried triumphantly. “It’s
The Last Missing Piece 89
the missing sword piece! Now our Civil War
sword is complete!”
Henry said slowly, “I hope we can get it
home without the stranger finding out.”
Just then the back door slammed.
Benny jumped.
Everyone’s eyes darted from one to the
other.
“Is it the prowler?” Jessie whispered.
“Nonsense!” Henry said with a snort. He
ran to the back door and quickly returned.
“Not a soul in sight. It was only the wind,”
- he said heartily. But there was doubt written
all over his face.
The others were doubtful, too.
“How come the backdoor wasn’t locked?”
Violet asked.
Benny looked sheepish. “I opened it before
to look outside.”
Henry sighed. “Remember I said we have
to be careful . . . very careful.”
CHAPTER 11
The Prowler
“We're leaving!” Henry said.
“We're heading back to the house.” He carefully
wrapped the point of the sword in a
dust rag. “No telling who’s around here.”
“T thought you said it was only the wind
that slammed the door,” Benny said, his head
tilted to one side.
“It probably was,” Jessie soothed.
Henry gave a last look at the tidy library
— so different from when they’d first
entered — then locked the door.
With the prowler on their minds, everyone
hastily mounted their bicycles. As fast as
90
The Prowler 91
they could, they biked back to Pete’s house.
Benny’s legs had never pushed so hard.
Back in the house, however, they tried to
forget the slammed door. Maybe it was the
wind, maybe it was the prowler spying on
them, but whatever it was, they were safe
and sound now.
“One more night!” Benny crowed. “And
Grandfather will be here. He'll be proud we
found the rest of the sword!”
“Thanks to you,” Jessie said, giving his
hand a squeeze.
“Just think,” Violet said happily. “Tomorrow
we'll be going home.”
“Yes, but we still have tonight to get
through,” Miguel said gloomily.
“No problem,” Henry said. He was worried
about Miguel, though. The slim boy was
so sad. It wouldn’t be long before he knew
~ whether his father was alive or not. “Miguel,
why don’t you help me chop wood?” Henry
asked. “We'll leave a nice stack for Pete.”
At supper they lingered over their spaghetti
and meatballs, enjoying their last night
in Pete’s house.
92 
When they’d finished eating, Henry fit the
sword together on a braided rug before the
fireplace. Even though the blade was rusty
and black, it was graceful and beautiful.
“T can imagine how the sword will look
when it’s polished. The silver and gold will
gleam,” Jessie said, admiring it.
“Such a wonderful sword,” Violet said.
“Captain Howard must have been very
proud to have been honored with such a
gift.”
“The Civil War was over one hundred
years ago,” Jessie said thoughtfully. “I wonder
what happened to Captain Howard.”
Henry, busy polishing the hilt, said, “Oh,
he probably retired to his farm near Gettysburg
and lived to a ripe old age.”
“What makes you think the Captain was
from Pennsylvania?” Miguel asked.
Henry shrugged. “Just a guess. He may
not have been.”
“TIL bet he looked handsome in his uniform,”
Jessie said, gazing at the sword.
Henry chuckled. “You've got a vivid imagination,
Jessie.”
The Prowler 93
Jessie laughed. “I’m not the artistic one.”
She glanced at Violet. “Violet is.”
Violet’s cheeks grew pink, She did love
music and her violin, and she did enjoy
painting.
“Time for bed, everybody!
“The earlier we go to bed, the earlier we'll
9) Henry said.
get up. Grandfather said he’d visit us tomorrow,
and if I know him, he'll be here for
breaktast.’.
“We need to leave Pete’s house spick-andspan,
too,” Jessie said. “Pete will be glad for
- the wood you left him, Henry.”
Henry nodded. “And I’m certain he'll be
pleased when he sees how clean the windows
and floors are.”
“TI hope so,” Jessie said.
“Pm sure he will,” Violet said, smiling at
Jessie. They had really worked while on their
adventure, but now that it was almost over,
they felt good.
Jessie picked up the pitcher. “I’m going
out to fill this with water,” she said. “I know
Benny will want a drink before he goes to
sleep.”
94 
“Youre not afraid, are you?” Violet asked.
“Maybe the hummer will be outside waiting
for you.”
Jessie laughed. “I’m not frightened at all.”
She moved to the door. “Besides, I'll only
be gone five minutes.”
After Jessie left, Benny and Miguel went
to bed while Violet set the table for breakfast.
She smiled as she set a place for Grandfather.
Henry carefully rewrapped the sword in
the dust rag and waited for Jessie’s return.
Outdoors, Jessie stepped quickly to the
pump. She didn’t intend to tarry any longer
than necessary. |
“Hooo, hooo,’
theztrees:
>) came a strange call from
Jessie halted, listening intently.
‘““Hoooo, hooo.”
She stared at the large oak. Then a smile
broke over her face. The yellow unblinking
eyes of an owl stared back at her.
“Go ahead and hoot, Mr. Owl,” Jessie said
as she pumped fresh cold spring water. “I’m
not afraid.”
A twig snapped, but Jessie kept pumpThe
Prowler 95
ing as if she hadn’t heard a thing.
Footsteps approached. Jessie froze. The
stranger was back again! A cold chill ran up
her spine.
All at once she whirled about, flinging the
pitcher in the air. She’d almost reached the
door when a cloth bag was thrown over her
head, blotting out sight and air. Her arms
were pinned to her side.
“Henry!” she screamed, but her muffled
voice was lost in the cloth. She struggled for
a breath of air.
“The sword is mine!” the stranger growled
in her ear. “Get out!”
Jessie’s heart thumped against her ribs, but
she knew what to do.
“Do you understand me?” The prowler
growled menacingly.
Suddenly, Jessie kicked the man’s shins
hard, and he let go of her arms to grab his
painful legs. She yanked off the bag and
gulped in air. She yelled, “Help! Help!”
Yellow light streamed from the house as
Henry tore open the door.
“The prowler!” she shouted, pointing at a
)

The Prowler 97
shadowy figure disappearing in the brush.
The bushes violently swayed back and
forth. An instant later a car’s engine started,
and the intruder sped away.
Henry dashed to Jessie’s side. “Are you
all right?” he asked with concern, throwing
his arms around her.
She nodded numbly, glad for Henry’s
warmth. The water pitcher was forgotten as
they hurried into the house.
“Jessie!” Violet said, rushing to her side.
Once inside, Henry bolted the door. Jessie
- sank down before the fire with Violet beside
her. Henry brought her a glass of orange
juice.
“H-he told us to get out! That the sword
was his!” Jessie shuddered. “That awful, awful
man! He almost smothered me! If I hadn't
kicked him hard, I wouldn’t have escaped!”
“It’s over,” Henry said softly. “He’s far
away by now!” But his heart was beating
rapidly when he glanced at Jessie's white
face. He wondered if the locked door could
keep out such a determined stranger!
CHAPTER 12
What Did Benny See?
That night, while Henry stood
guard, everyone was restless. Jessie heard a
barking dog, Violet heard an owl hoot,
Benny heard a scolding squirrel, and Miguel
heard the wind in*the’ trees) ‘Phe ‘children
tossed and turned all night, sitting up in bed
at each sound they heard.
In the morning, though, when the sun
peeped through the window, they jumped
out of bed, eager to greet their grandfather
and go home.
“T can’t wait to see Grandfather,” Violet
98
What Did Benny See? 99
said, strapping on her watch. “It’s almost
nine o'clock.”
“T can’t, either,” Jessie said, smiling at her
sister. :
“T hear someone in the kitchen already,”
Violet said.
“It’s Henry. He promised to fill the pitcher
with water.” Jessie laughed. “If he can find
it after I threw it in the brush!”
Laughing, the girls went into the kitchen.
Sure enough, Henry was setting out the
glasses.
Soon Miguel and Benny woke up.
“Good morning, Miguel,” Violet said.
Miguel barely nodded. “ Morning,” he
mumbled.
“Come sit down,” Jessie said, pouring his
orange juice. “You look upset.” Her eyes
were sympathetic.
“Yes,” Miguel said in a low tone, sliding
into his chair but not drinking his juice. “Today
I'll find out about my father.”
“Don’t worry,” Jessie said gently. “I know
it will be okay.”
Miguel smiled weakly. “I hope so,” he said.
100 
“Here’s the water,” Henry said, putting
the pitcher on the counter. He laughed. “I
had to search in every bush.” He winked at
Jessie.“You’ve got a strong arm.”
“Yes,” Jessie said, smiling. “Last night,
my strong foot could have saved my life.”
Henry stopped smiling. “I’m glad you're
so quick!”
Benny, who sat by the window, said, “I
see a big car coming around the curve.” He
leapt down. “It’s Grandfather!” he shouted.
Henry opened the door, and they all ran
out to greet him.
When his car pulled up, Benny dashed
forward. “Grandfather! We’ve been waiting
for you!”
Grandfather Alden picked up Benny and
swung him around. Then everyone crowded
around, hugging and kissing. All, that is,
except the sad boy in the background.
“Ts this Miguel?” Grandfather Alden asked
kindly.
“Yes,” Miguel answered shyly, moving
forward and shaking Grandfather’s hand.
“Tm Miguel Morales.”
What Did Benny See? 101
“Well, my boy,” Grandfather said, “the
Coast Guard is bringing in the two fishermen
today.”
“They are?” Miguel said, his mouth so dry
he could barely speak.
"Well drive <lownetoPete’s Café: after
breakfast,” Grandfather promised.
Miguel nodded stiffly. He was uncertain
if he really wanted to go.
‘“How’s Watch?” Jessie asked.
“Watch is eagerly waiting for you,”
Grandfather replied, “but the dog and I got
along fine.”
“Good,” Jessie said, obviously glad Watch
had been taken good care of. “And now,” she
announced, “it’s time to eat.”
“We're having Benny’s favorite blueberry
pancakes in honor of our last day here,” Violet
said.
“Well, well,” Grandfather laughed heartily.
“Think of that. Blueberry pancakes are
my favorite, too!”
“IT know.” Benny grinned.
Jessie set a pile of pancakes on the table,
and Violet poured the milk.
102 
Benny wiggled in his chair. He was so
excited, he couldn’t sit still.
While they ate, Grandfather heard all
about the library and the sword and the mysterious
stranger. He frowned when he realized
how close to danger his grandchildren
and Miguel had been. The sooner they left,
the better!
After the breakfast dishes were washed,
everyone packed his or her belongings.
Grandfather glanced around the room.
“Pete has a nice house. Clean and cozy.” His
blue eyes twinkled. “I’m sure you all had
something to do with the way it looks.”
“It was fun,” Jessie said, then added softly,
“except for the stranger.”
Grandfather’s eyes grew serious. “Well,
we'll be leaving soon, and you'll be safe.”
“Look, Grandfather,” Henry said, fitting
the sword pieces together on the table.
“Its magnificent!” Grandfather exclaimed.
He ran his fingers lightly over the
blade. “No wonder someone is after this valuable
sword!”
“The sword was awarded to Captain
What Did Benny See? 103
Charles Howard,” Violet explained.
“Yes,” Jessie continued, “because of his
bravery at the Battle of Gettysburg.”
“My, my,” Grandfather said in wonder as
he stroked his chin. “Wouldn’t a museum be
glad to have this!”
“Tt’s beautiful,” Miguel said.
Grandfather turned to the slim, shy boy.
“I know you must be anxious to go to Pete's
Gate.”
“Y-yes,” Miguel stammered. “I guess |
am.’
“Then,” Grandfather directed, “Henry,
wrap up the sword, and we'll put it in the
trunk of the car . . . and don’t forget your
bikes, too. Let’s get going!”
“Great idea,” Henry agreed, carefully
wrapping the three pieces individually.
Once in the car, no one said a word for
the whole two miles. Everyone's thoughts
were of Miguel. Everyone hoped his father
would be alive.
Arriving at the marina, they jumped out
of the car.
Waving, Pete came out to greet them.
104 
“Hello, Aldens!” He shook Grandfather’s
hand. “How are you, James?”
“Fine, Pete, just fine,” Grandfather said,.
looking around. “But where are the two
fishermen?”
Pete jerked a thumb over his shoulder.
“Inside, drinking coffee.”
Miguel slipped past Grandfather and
dashed into the café.
The others hurried in behind him. Jessie
held her breath.
Miguel searched the room. Suddenly he
let out a yell. “Father!” He rushed into the
arms of a man who had jumped up from a
back booth.
“My son,” the man cried. For a moment
all was silent, as father and son clung to one
another.
“Father,” Miguel said, “I was worried. I’m
so glad you're safe.”
“Yes, Im: lucky,” “his tather sansweredt
Even though the man smiled, tears glistened
in his eyes. He ran a trembling hand over
Miguel’s thick hair. “Poor Joseph drowned.”
“I-I was afraid it was you,” Miguel whisior
106

pered, hugging his father even tighter.
Grandfather moved to Miguel’s side.
“We're happy for you, Miguel.” The Alden
children joined him and grabbed Miguel’s
hand.
Miguel broke away, remembering his
manners. “This is my father, Pedro Morales.”
He introduced Mr. Alden, Jessie, V1-
olet, Henry, and Benny.
“Thank you,” Pedro said, with shining
eyes. “You took good care of my son.”
“Hurray for Mr. Morales!” Benny
shouted. “Hurray for Miguel!” Suddenly his
smile vanished as he listened to something
and turned to stare at the man at the counter.
He moved to Henry’s side. “Look! Look over
there,” he whispered. “That man’s humming
a funny tune. Maybe it’s the man Jessie
heard.” He shivered, reaching for Violet’s
hands “limeatrards”
CHAPTER 13
Face to Face with the Stranger
“Y ow’re right, Benny,” Jessie
said in a shaky voice, pointing to a lean man
at the counter.
Henry glanced at the tall man hunched
over the counter and shrugged. “What’s
wrong, Jessie?”
“H-He’s humming.”
“So?” Henry said.
“He’s humming that awful tune that I
heard the night I went to the pump,” she
said softly.
“You can’t accuse a man for humming.
107
108 
You have to be sure, Jessie.” Henry studied
the unshaven man thoughtfully.
Fortunately the man didn’t notice them.
He was too busy reading the menu.
Violet, too, examined the man from head
to foot. “I don’t know,” she said, remembering
her encounter with the figure that had
dived into the shrubbery. “I thought he was
shorter.” ;
“Tt’s hard to tell,” Henry answered, “when
he’s sitting down.”
The lean man stirred his coffee, still humming
the eerie tune. He didn’t seem to care
who was around him.
Jessie’s eyes grew big, horrified at being
so close to the stranger. “I-I’m sure!” she
stammered. “Pll never forget that funny offkey
melody! It’s too weird. He’s the one.”
Henry gave her a sharp look. “Are you
positive?”
Jessie stared at the man, nodding slowly.
“Tm positive!”
“Then, we'd better phone the sheriff,” he
said quietly. He hurried to the table where
Pete was sitting with his grandfather.
Face to Face with the Stranger 109
“Grandfather,” Henry said, keeping an
eye on the lean man drinking coffee. “Jessie
says that’s the man she heard at the pump.
Should you call the sheriffe” Again Henry
glanced at the stranger.
“Your grandfather told me all about the
prowler and his humming,” Pete said. “No
need to call the sheriff, though.” He chuckled.
“Bill Connors comes in here at ten-thirty
every day for coffee.” He tilted his head in
the direction of the sheriff. ““That’s Bill at the
table next to the window.”
Henry turned to his erandfather. “We're
certain that man at the counter is the intruder,”
he said in a low voice.
“You are?” Grandfather asked, talking in
a low voice. “You mustn’t make a mistake.”
“Pm sure,” Henry said urgently.
“How do you know?” Grandfather questioned.
“That man is humming the same tune that
Jessie heard at Pete's house.” Henry’s tone
was urgent.
“Henry, you could bea detective,” Grandfather
said proudly.
110 
Henry said, shaking his head, “It was
Benny who spotted him.”
“Jessie, go talk to the sheriff,” Grandfather
said, turning to find Jessie.
But Jessie had already hurried to the
sheriff’s side and sat across from him. “Sir,”
she began, “I’m Jessie Alden and we. . .”
The pleasant, round-faced man_ half
turned to face Jessie. “Pete told me all about
you kids. You’re staying at his house, aren’t
you?” The smiling man took another bite of
his doughnut.
Jessie hurriedly told him about the humming
prowler.
“Don’t worry,” he said easily, “we'll catch
the man who bothered you!”
“He’s sitting at the end of the counter,”
Jessie said quickly.
Sheriff Connors gave the stranger a sideways
glance. “Why, that’s Jake Morris. He
lives in town and everyone knows him. Jake’s
a harmless fellow. You must be mistaken.
What makes you think he’s the one?” He gave
Jessie a doubtful look.
“I heard him humming the tune that he
Face to Face with the Stranger Jal
was humming when I| went to the pump one
night. He was watching our house!” Jessie
bit her underlip, afraid the man would get
away. Why didn’t the sheriff do something!
Her heart began to pound.
“Now, I can’t arrest everyone who hums
a certain tune,” the sheriff said with a grin.
“Besides, I don’t hear him humming.”
Jessie glanced at the stranger. Sure
enough, he’d stopped. Jessie impatiently
tapped her fingers on the tabletop.
When the sheriff noticed how worried she
was, he continued in a soothing voice, “Don’t
you worry, Jessie. We'll catch the man who
tried to rob you.”
“He’s the one. I’m positive!” Jessie exclaimed.
“Please, hurry!”
The sheriff shook his head. “Relax! I’m not
arresting anyone because they're humming a
tune!”
In despair, Jessie twisted around. She
looked at Henry and shook her head. Again
she turned and studied the man at the far
end of the counter. If only there were something
to prove he was the intruder!
TH2 
Henry was still standing beside Grandfather
and Pete when all at once his eyes
narrowed. There was no doubt about it —
Jessie was right! That man was the guilty
one! Out of the man’s back pocket jutted a
gray work glove. The very glove that
matched the one he had found in the library!
He pulled it from his pocket. “Sheriff!”
Henry said grimly. “See this glove?” ‘Triumphantly,
he held it before the sheriff’s eyes.
The sheriff grunted. “I see it.”
“It matches the one that man has in his
pocket!” Henry slapped the glove back and
forth in his hands. “Sheriff, this glove was
found on a shelf in the library! The prowler
wore it when he handled the books in his
hunt for the sword.”
The sheriff’s eyes widened. “Is that so?”
Gently he placed his doughnut back on the
plate and stood.
The thin-faced man glanced at the sheriff.
~The sheriff stood up and hitched up his
belt and holster. He moved toward the man.
“Hello, Jake,” he said in a friendly tone.
“What are’you ee”
Face to Face with the Stranger 113
Jake’s eyes narrowed suspiciously. He
glanced over his shoulder and saw Jessie, Violet,
Henry, and Benny. Immediately he
jumped up and dashed into the men’s room.
Henry whirled about, and along with the
sheriff he rushed at the door, but when Sheriff
Connors tried the knob, it was locked!
Benny cried, “He’s gone!”
“Not by a long shot,” the sheriff yelled.
Putting his shoulder to the door, he heaved
against it with all his might. The door splintered,
but remained shut.
Henry shouted, “He’ll go out the back!”
“There’s only a high window,” Pete said
reassuringly.
The sheriff looked at Pete, and Pete looked
at the sheriff.
The plump sheriff raced to the front door,
but in a flash, Henry was outside ahead of
him. Henry’s thoughts raced along with his
legs. If the stranger got to his car, he’d escape
for sure.
When Henry reached the back of the café,
sure enough, the man had crawled out the
small high window and was clinging to the

Face to Face with the Stranger 115
windowsill, his long legs dangling in midair.
He was about to drop to the ground and escape!
Henry realized he had to stop him any
way that he could! He dived for the man’s
legs, wrapping his arms about his ankles and
holding on tight! “I’ve got him!” he yelled.
Huffing and puffing, the sheriff finally appeared
around the corner. “Let him go, lad,”
he commanded.
By this time Benny and the others had
arrived. “You caught the mean man!” Benny
shouted. “Good, Henry!”
Henry let go of the man’s legs, and Jake
released his hold on the sill, dropping to the
ground. He glared at Henry. youu ine
snarled. His eyes glittered as he glanced at
each Alden. “You all meddled in things that
don’t concern you!”
Jessie shuddered, glancing at the man’s
bony long fingers. “I’m glad you caught
him,” she murmured.
“You bet I have,” the sheriff said grimly.
“Jake, I can’t believe this. But it must be true.
Mike Johnson mentioned someone humming
before he switched on the light in his jewelry
116 
store the night he was robbed.”
Jake glared at the sheriff and shifted uneasily.
Sheriff Connors nodded knowingly.

“We'll find out, Jake, if you’re the one who’s
been stealing things around here. A valuable
musket and an old dagger from Lamont’s Antique
Store were stolen, too.” He took a
breath. “And you must have been the one
who robbed Mrs. ‘Tate of her diamond ring!”
He scratched his head. “And, by golly, you
must have stolen the antique maps from Tom
Davis’s map and coin shop. And the set of
gold coins he had! Why, if you’re the one,
and | think you are, every store owner will
be tickled pink that you’re behind bars.”
“Hah!” the thin-faced man had a guilty
look in his close-set eyes. He knew he’d been
found out. “If it hadn’t been for these four
kids,” he snarled, “I could have gotten my
hands on a Civil War sword!”
“How did you know about the sword?”
Jessie asked. “We didn’t tell a soul.”
Jake laughed. “You told one person.” He
motioned toward Henry. “He told your
Face to Face with the Stranger 117.
grandfather on the phone. I was in a booth
here and I overheard him.”
“T never even noticed you,” Henry said.
“Move, Jake!” Sheriff Connors ordered,
giving him a shove. “We’re taking a ride to
the county station. Won’t the boys be surprised
to see you?”
With his hands in the air, Jake walked to
the squad car, the sheriff in back of him.
Before he got in, he gave the Aldens a dark
scowl.
“Whew,” Benny said, mopping his forehead.
“I’m glad we caught him. He could
have stolen our sword and kept it for
himself!”
“You're right, Benny.” Violet laughed,
throwing an arm about Benny’s shoulder.
“That sword belongs in a museum. For
everyone!”
“The milk and cookies are on me!” Pete
said in a loud voice.
Happily everyone followed Pete back into
the café. The stranger was going to jail, and
they were safe at last!
Benny’s round face lit up when he saw the
118 
big chocolate cookies and the cold, frothy
milk. “My heart was beating fast when we
caught that mean man! It made me hungry!”
Everyone laughed and finished the treat.
Miguel and his father soon stood up to
leave.
“Thank you for everything,” Pedro Morales
said warmly. :
“Yes,” echoed Miguel. “Thank you.” His
dark eyes sparkled as he smiled at everyone.
“Mr. Morales,” Grandfather asked, “what
will you do without a fishing boat?”
Pedro shrugged. “I have my son. I don’t
need anything else!”
“We'll all stay one more day,” Grandfather
Alden said firmly. “Tomorrow I want you
to meet me at the boatyard at two o’clock.
You are to pick out the best fishing boat
afloat!”
Pedro smiled, which lit’ up his weatherbeaten
face. “How can I repay you?”
“Bring us some fish once in awhile,”
Grandfather answered with a smile.
NY CSe2) Benny said loudly. “And lobsters,
too.
Face to Face with the Stranger 119
“Every week!” Pedro promised. He left
with his arm around Miguel.
The next morning Grandfather and his
grandchildren drove to the boatyard. Pedro
and Miguel were standing by a large boat,
waiting for them.
“Hi!” Benny yelled, racing toward Miguel.
“PII help you choose a boat!”
Miguel grinned. He was lucky to have
such wonderful friends.
Row after row of boats surrounded them.
Big boats, small boats, fishing boats, speed
boats, row boats, and sailboats.
Grandfather, his arms folded, leaned
against a blue and white yacht. His eyes
twinkled. “Have you picked out a boat, Mr.
Morales?” he asked.
Pedro smiled shyly. “No, Mr. Alden,” he
responded. “That’s up to you.”
Benny dashed toward a large gray boat
with clean long lines. “This one!” he
shouted.
Grandfather raised an eyebrow. “What do
you think, Mr. Morales?”
120 
Pedro ran his fingers over the smooth surface.
“It’s a beauty. Benny has chosen the
best boat on the lot.”
“Then it’s settled,” Grandfather said, placing
a hand on Pedro’s shoulder. He motioned
to the salesman and completed the sale.
With tears in his eyes, Pedro heartily
shook Grandfather’s hand. “Pll never forget
you.”
Jessie and Violet hugged Miguel, and the
slender boy gazed at them for a moment,
then turned away with his father.
Pedro and Miguel stopped once at the entrance
and waved, and then they were gone.
“Il miss Miguel,” Benny said sadly.
“We all will,” Violet said softly.
Without a word they joined Grandfather
and went home.
The next week, Grandfather Alden convinced
the City Council that the library
should be saved and, because of its age and
the hidden sword, be given landmark status.
Several months later, he took his grandchildren
on a trip to Boston to visit the BosFace
to Face with the Stranger 21
ton Museum. Displayed in a beautiful glass
case was their Civil War sword. It no longer
was in rusty pieces but in one long blade.
The blade shimmered. Nearby was the letter
from General Meade.
“We found the sword,” Violet said
proudly.
“Yes,” Jessie said. “We found an American
treasure. That’s one of the best things we’ve
ever done!”
“No,” Benny piped up. “The best thing
was helping Miguel and his father.”
They laughed, knowing that Benny was
right!
And they left the museum feeling warm
and good. Not, however, because they’d
saved a library and discovered a Civil War
sword, but because they’d helped someone
as nice as Miguel and his father.

