Oryx and Crake: a novel
Margaret Atwood
 

 
 Mango
Snowman wakes before dawn. He lies unmoving, listening to the tide
coming in, wave after wave sl oshing over the various barricades, wish-
wash, w ish-wash, the rhythm of heartbeat. He would so like to b elieve he is
still asleep.
On the eastern horizon there’ s a  greyish haze, lit now with a rosy , deadly
glow . Strange how that colour s till seems tender . The of fshore towers stand
out in dark silhouette against it,  rising improbably out of the pink and pale
blue of the lagoon. The shriek s of the birds that nest out th ere and the
distant ocean grinding against the ersatz reefs of rusted car parts and
jumbled bricks and assorted rubble sound almost like holiday traf fic.
Out of habit he looks at his watch – stainless-steel case, burnished
aluminum band, still shiny although it no longer works. He wears it now as
his o nly talisman. A blank face is what it shows him: zero hour . It causes a
jolt of terror to run through him, this absence of of ficial time. Nobody
nowhere knows what time it is.
“Calm down,” he tells himself. He takes a few deep brea ths, then
scratches his bug bites, around b ut not on the itchiest places, taking care not
to kn ock of f any scabs: blood poisoning is the last thing he nee ds. Then he
scans the ground below for wild life: all quiet, no scales and tails. Left hand,
right foo t, right hand, left foot, he makes his way down from th e tree. After
brushing of f the twigs and bark, he winds his dirty bedsheet aro und himself
like a toga. He ’ s hung his aut hentic-replica Red Sox baseba ll cap on a
branch overnigh t for safekeeping; he checks inside it, flicks out a spider ,
puts it on.
He w alks a couple of yards to th e left, pisses into the bushes. “Heads up,”
he says to the g rasshoppers that whir away at the impact. Then he goes to
the other side of the tree, we ll away from his customary urinal, and
rummages arou nd in the cache he’ s improvised from a fe w slabs of
concrete, lining it with wire mesh to keep out the rats and mice. He’ s
stashed some mangoes there, kn otted in a plastic bag, and a can of Sveltana
No-Meat Cocktail Sausages, and a precious half-bottle of Scotch – no, more
like a third – and a chocolate-flavoured ener gy bar scrounged from a trailer
park, lim p and sticky inside its foil. He can’ t bring himself to eat it yet: itmight be the las t one he’ll ever find. He keeps a can opener there too, and
for no particular reason an ice pick; and six empty beer bottles, for
sentimental reas ons and for stori ng fresh water . Also his sunglasses; he puts
them on. One lens is missing but they’re better than nothing.
He undo es the plastic bag: there’ s only a single mango left. F unny , he
remembered more. The ants have got in, even though he tied the bag as
tightly a s he could. Already they’re running up his arms, the bla ck kind and
the vicious little yellow kind. Surprising what a sharp sting they can give,
especially the yellow ones. He rubs them away .
“It is the strict adherence to  daily routine that tends tow ards the
maintenance of good morale and the preservation of sanity ,” he says out
loud. He has the feeling he’ s quoting from a book, som e obsolete,
ponderous directive written in aid of European colonials running plantations
of one kind or another . He can’ t recall ever having read such a thing, but
that means nothing. There are a lot of blank spaces in his stub of a brain,
where memory used to be. R ubber plantations, cof fee plantations, jute
plantations. (What was jute?) They would have been told to  wear solar
topis, dress for dinner , refrain from raping the natives. It wouldn’ t have said
raping . Refrain from fraternizing with the female inhabitants. Or , put some
other way . . .
He bets they didn’ t refrain, though. Nine times out of ten.
“In view  of the mitigating,” he says. He finds himself standing with his
mouth o pen, try ing to remember the rest of the sentence. He sits down on
the ground and begins to eat the mango.
 
 F l o t s a m
On the white beach, ground-up  coral and broken bones, a group of the
children are walking. They must have been swimming, they’re s till wet and
glistening. They should be more careful: who knows what ma y infest the
lagoon? But they’re unwary; unlike Snowman, who won’ t dip a toe in there
even at night, when the sun can’ t get at him. Revision: especially at night.
He watc hes them  with envy , or is it nostalgia? It can’ t be that: he never
swam in  the sea as a child, never ran around on a beach without any clothes
on. The children scan the te rrain, stoop, pick up flotsam; then they
deliberate among themselves, keeping some items, discarding others; their
treasures go into a torn sack. Sooner or later – he can count on it – they’ll
seek him  out where he sits wrap ped in his decaying sheet, hugging his shins
and sucking on his mango, in u nder the shade of the trees because of the
punishing sun. For the children – thick-skinned, resistant to ultraviolet –
he’ s a creature of dimness, of the dusk.
Here th ey come now . “Snowman, oh Snowman,” they chant in their
singsong way . They never stand  too close to him. Is that from respect, as
he’d like to think, or because he stinks?
(He doe s stink, he knows that well enough. He’ s rank, he’ s gamy , he
reeks lik e a walrus – oily , salty , fishy – not that he’ s ever sme lled such a
beast. But he’ s seen pictures.)
Opening up their sack, the children chorus, “Oh Snowman, wha t have we
found?” They lift out the objects, hold them up as if of fering them for sale:
a hu bcap, a piano key , a chunk of pale-green pop bottle smoo thed by the
ocean. A plastic BlyssPluss container , empty; a ChickieNobs Bucket
O’Nubbins, ditto . A computer m ouse, or the busted remains of  one, with a
long wiry tail.
Snowman feels like weeping. What can he tell them? There’ s no way of
explaining to them what these curious items are, or were. But surely they’ve
guessed what he’ll say , because it’ s always the same.
“These are things from before.” He keeps his voice kindly but remote. A
cross between pedagogue, sooth sayer , and benevolent uncle – that should
be his tone.“W ill th ey hurt us?” Sometimes they find tins of motor oil, caustic
solvents, plastic  bottles of bleach. Booby traps from the past. He’ s
considered to be an expert on potential accidents: scaldi ng liquids,
sickening fumes, poison dust. Pain of odd kinds.
“These, no,” he says. “These are safe.” At this they lose interest, let the
sack dangle. But they don’ t go away: they stand, they s tare. Their
beachcombing is an excuse. Mostly they want to look at him, because he’ s
so u nlike them. Every so often they ask him to take of f his sunglasses and
put them on again: they want to see whether he has two eyes really , or three.
“Snowman, oh Snowman,” the y’re singing, less to him tha n to one
another . T o them his name is ju st two syllables. They don’ t know what a
snowman is, they’ve never seen snow .
It was one of Crake’ s rules that no name could be chosen for which a
physical equivalent – even stuf fed, even skeletal – could not be
demonstrated. N o unicorns, no grif fins, no manticores or basilisks. But
those rules no longer apply , and it’ s given Snowman a bitter pleasure to
adopt th is dubious label. The Abominable Snowman – existing and not
existing, flickeri ng at the edges  of blizzards, apelike man or manlike ape,
stealthy , elusive , known only th rough rumours and through its backward-
pointing footprin ts. Mountain tribes were said to have chased it down and
killed it when th ey had the chan ce. They were said to have boiled it, roasted
it, held special feasts; all the more exciting, he supposes, for bordering on
cannibalism.
For pres ent purposes he’ s shortened the name. He’ s only Snowman. He’ s
kept the abominable  to himself, his own secret hair shirt.
After a few moments of hesitation the children squat down in a half-
circle, boys and girls together . A couple of the younger ones are still
munching on their breakfasts, th e green juice running down their chins. It’ s
discouraging how grubby everyone gets without mirrors. Still, they’re
amazingly attractive, these chil dren – each one naked, each one perfect,
each one  a dif ferent skin colour – chocolate, rose, tea, butter , cr eam, honey
– but each with green eyes. Crake’ s aesthetic.
They’re gazing at Snowman expectantly . They must be hoping he’ll talk
to them,  but he isn’ t in the mood for it today . At the very most he might letthem see  his sunglasses, up close, or his shiny , dysfunctional watch, or his
baseball cap. They like the cap, but don’ t understand his need for such a
thing – removable hair that isn’ t hair – and he hasn’ t yet invented a fiction
for it.
They’re quiet for a bit, staring, ruminating, but then the oldest one starts
up. “Oh Snowman, please tell us – what is that moss growing out of your
face?” The others chime in. “Please tell us, please tell us!” No nudging, no
giggling: the question is serious.
“Feathers,” he says.
They ask this qu estion at least once a week. He gives the sam e answer .
Even over such a short time – two months, three? He’ s lost cou nt – they’ve
accumulated a stock of lore, of c onjecture about him: Snowman was once a
bir d but he’ s for gotten how to fly and the r est of his feathers fell out, and so
he is cold and he needs a second skin, and he has to wrap himself up. No:
he’ s cold  becaus e he eats fish, and fish ar e cold. No: he wraps himself up
because he’ s missing his man th ing, and he doesn’ t want us to see. That’ s
why he won’ t go  swimming. Snowman has wrinkles because he  once lived
underwater and it wrinkled up his skin. Snowman is sad because the others
like him flew away over the sea, and now he is all alone.
“I want feathers too,” says the youngest. A vain hope: no bear ds on the
men, am ong the Children of Crake. Crake himself had found beards
irrational; also he’d been irritated by the task of shaving, so he’d abolished
the need for it. Though not of course for Snowman: too late for him.
Now the y all begin at once. “O h Snowman, oh Snowman, can we have
feathers too, please?”
“No,” he says.
“Why not, why not?” sing the two smallest ones.
“Just a minute, I’ll ask Crake.” He holds his watch up to the sk y , turns it
around on his wrist, then puts it to his ear as if listening to it. They follow
each motion, enthralled. “No,” h e says. “Crake says you can’ t. No feathers
for you. Now piss of f.”
“Piss of f ? Piss of f?” They look at one another , then at him. He ’ s made a
mistake, he’ s said a new thing, one that’ s impossible to explain. Piss isn’ tsomething they’d find insulting. “What is piss off ?”
“Go away!” He flaps his sheet a t them and they scatter , running along the
beach. T hey’re s till not sure whether to be afraid of him, or how afraid. He
hasn’ t b een known to harm a child, but his nature is not fully understood.
There’ s no telling what he might do.
 
 V o i c e
“Now I’m alone,” he says out loud. “All, all alone. Alone on  a wide,
wide sea.” One more scrap from the burning scrapbook in his head.
Revision: seashore.
He feels the nee d to hear a human voice – a fully human voice , like his
own. Sometimes he laughs like a hyena or roars like a lion – his idea of a
hyena, h is idea of a lion. He used to watch old DVDs of suc h creatures
when he was a child: those animal-behaviour programs featuring  copulation
and grow ling and innards, and mothers licking their young. W hy had he
found them so reassuring?
Or h e grunts an d squeals like a  pigoon, or howls like a wolvog: Ar oo!
Ar oo!  Sometimes in t he dusk he runs up and down on the sand, flinging
stones at the ocean and screaming, Shit, shit, shit, shit, shit!  He feel s better
afterwards.
He stand s up and raises his arm s to stretch, and his sheet falls of f. He
looks down at his body with dismay: the grimy , bug-bitten skin, the salt-
and-pepper tufts  of hair , the thickening yellow toenails. Naked a s the day he
was bor n, not that he can remember a thing about that. So m any crucial
events take place behind people’ s backs, when they aren’ t in a position to
watch: birth and death, for instance. And the temporary oblivion of sex.
“Don’ t even think about it,” he tells himself. Sex is like drink, it’ s bad to
start brooding about it too early in the day .
He u sed to take good care of himself; he used to run, work o ut at the
gym. Now he can see his own r ibs: he’ s wasting away . Not enough animal
protein. A woman’ s voice says caressingly in his ear , Nice buns!  It isn’ t
Oryx, it’ s some other woman. Oryx is no longer very talkative.
“Say an ything,” he implores her . She can hear him, he needs t o believe
that, but  she’ s giving him the sil ent treatment. “What can I do?” he asks her .
“Y ou know I . . .”
Oh, nice abs!  comes the whisper , interrupting him. Honey , j ust lie back.
Who is it? Som e tart he once bought. Revision, professional sex-skills
expert. A  trapez e artist, rubber s pine, spangles glued onto her lik e the scalesof a fish. He hates these echoes. Saints used to hear them, crazed lice-
infested hermits in their caves and deserts. Pretty soon he’l l be seeing
beautiful demons, beckoning to him, licking their lips, with red-hot nipples
and flick ering pink tongues. Mermaids will rise from the wave s, out there
beyond the crumbling towers, a nd he’ll hear their lovely singin g and swim
out to them and be eaten by sha rks. Creatures with the heads and breasts of
women and the t alons of eagles will swoop down on him, and he ’ll open his
arms to them, and that will be the end. Brainfrizz.
Or w orse, some girl he knows, or knew , will come walking tow ards him
through the trees, and she’ll be happy to see him but she’ll be made of air .
He’d welcome even that, for the company .
He scans the horizon, using his one sunglassed eye: nothing. The sea is
hot metal, the sky a bleached blue, except for the hole burnt in it by the sun.
Everything is so empty . W ater , sand, sky , trees, fragments o f past time.
Nobody to hear him.
“Crake!” he yells. “Asshole! Shit-for -brains!”
He listens. The salt water is r unning down his face again. He never
knows w hen tha t will happen and he can never stop it. His breath is coming
in ga sps, as if a giant hand is clenching around his chest – clen ch, release,
clench. Senseless panic.
“Y ou did this!” he screams at the ocean.
No answer , which isn’ t surprising. Only the waves, wish-wash, wish-
wash. He wipes his fist across his face, across the grime and tears and snot
and the derelict’ s whiskers and s ticky mango juice. “Snowman, Snowman,”
he says. “Get a life.”
 
 B o n f i r e
Once upon a time, Snowman wasn’ t Snowman. Instead he was Jimmy .
He’d been a good boy then.
 
 
Jimmy’ s earliest complete memory was of a huge bonfire. He must have
been five, maybe six. He was wearing red rubber boots with a smiling
duck’ s f ace on each toe; he reme mbers that, because after seeing the bonfire
he h ad t o walk through a pan of  disinfectant in those boots. The y’d said the
disinfectant was poisonous an d he shouldn’ t splash, and then he was
worried that the poison would get into the eyes of the ducks and hurt them.
He’d be en told the ducks were o nly like pictures, they weren’ t real and had
no feelings, but he didn’ t quite believe it.
So let’ s say five and a half, thinks Snowman. That’ s about right.
 
 
The month could have been October , or else November; the leaves still
turned c olour then, and they wer e orange and red. It was muddy underfoot –
he must have be en standing in a field – and it was drizzling. The bonfire
was an enormous pile of cows and sheep and pigs. Their legs stuck out stif f
and stra ight; gas oline had been poured onto them; the flames shot up and
out, yellow and white and red and orange, and a smell of charred flesh filled
the air . It was l ike the barbecue in the backyard when his fa ther cooked
things but a lot stronger , and mixed in with it was a gas-station smell, and
the odour of burning hair .
Jimmy knew what burning hair smelled like because he’d cut of f some of
his o wn hair with the manicure scissors and set fire to it with his mother ’ s
cigarette lighter .  The hair had frizzled up, squiggling like a clutch of tiny
black w orms, so he’d cut of f some more and done it again. By the time he
was caught, his hair was ragged all along the front. When accus ed he’d said
it was an experiment.
His father had laughed then, but his mother hadn’ t. At least (his father
said) Jim my’d had the good sen se to cut the hair of f before torc hing it. Hismother s aid it was lucky he had n’ t burnt the house down. Then they’d had
an a r gument about the cigarett e lighter , which wouldn’ t have been there
(said his  father) if his mother didn’ t smoke. His mother said that all children
were arsonists at heart, and if not for the lighter he’d have used matches.
Once th e fight got going Jimmy felt relieved, because he’d known then
that he wouldn’ t be punished. A ll he had to do was say nothing  and pretty
soon the y’d for g et why they’d started ar guing in the first place. But he also
felt guilty , because look what h e’d made them do. He knew it would end
with a door being slammed. He scrunched down lower and lower in his
chair wi th the words whizzing back and forth over his head, and finally
there was the bang of the door – his mother this time – and the wind that
came wi th it. There was always a wind when the door got slamm ed, a small
puf f – whuf f! – right in his ears.
“Never mind, old buddy ,” said his father . “W omen always get hot under
the colla r . She’l l cool down. L et’ s have some ice cream.” So that’ s what
they did , they had Raspberry R ipple in the cereal bowls with the blue and
red birds  on them that were hand made in Mexico so you shouldn’ t put them
in t he dishwasher , and Jimmy ate his all up to show his father that
everything was okay .
W omen, and what went on un der their collars. Hotness and coldness,
coming and going in the strang e musky flowery variable-weather country
inside their clothes – mysterious, important, uncontrollable. That was his
father ’ s take on things. But men’ s body temperatures were never dealt with;
they we re never  even mentioned, not when he was little, except when his
dad said , “Chill out.” Why weren’ t they? Why nothing about the hot collars
of men? Those smooth, sharp-edged collars with their dark, sulphurous,
bristling undersides. He could have used a few theories on that.
 
 
The next day hi s father took h im to a haircut place where there was a
picture o f a pretty girl in the w indow with pouty lips and a black T -shirt
pulled down of f one shoulder , glaring out through smudgy charcoal eyes
with a mean stare and her hair s tanding up stif f like quills. Insid e, there was
hair all over the  tiled floor , in clumps and wisps; they were sw eeping it upwith a push bro om. First Jimmy had a black cape put on him, only it was
more like a bib, and Jimmy didn’ t want that, because it was babyish. The
haircut man laughed and said it  wasn’ t a bib, because who ever heard of a
baby with a black bib on? So it was okay; and then Jimmy got a short all-
over cut to even  out the ragged places, which maybe was what h e’d wanted
in the first place  – shorter hair . Then he had stuf f out of a jar put  on to make
it spiky .  It smelled like orange peels. He smiled at himself in  the mirror ,
then scowled, thrusting down his eyebrows.
“T ough guy ,” said the haircut man, nodding at Jimmy’ s father . “What a
tiger .” H e whisk ed Jimmy’ s cut-of f hair onto the floor with all the other
hair , then removed the black cape with a flourish and lifted Jimmy down.
 
 
At th e bonfire J immy was anxious about the animals, because t hey were
being burned and surely that would hurt them. No, his father told him. The
animals were dead. They were like steaks and sausages, only they still had
their skins on.
And their heads, thought Jimmy . Steaks didn’ t have heads. The heads
made a dif ference: he thought he could see the animals looking at him
reproachfully out of their burning eyes. In some way all of this – the
bonfire, the charred smell, but m ost of all the lit-up, suf fering animals – was
his fault, because he’d done no thing to rescue them. At the same time he
found the bonfire a beautiful sight – luminous, like a Christmas tree, but a
Christmas tree on fire. He hoped there might be an explosion, as on
television.
Jimmy’ s father was beside him, holding on to his hand. “Lift me up,”
said Jim my . His  father assumed he wanted to be comforted, which he did,
and picked him up and hugged him. But also Jimmy wanted to see better .
“This is where it ends up,” said Jimmy’ s father , not to Jimmy but to a
man stan ding with them. “Once things get going.” Jimmy’ s father sounded
angry; so did the man when he answered.
“They say it was brought in on purpose.”
“I wouldn’ t be surprised,” said Jimmy’ s father .“Can I have one of the cow horns?” said Jimmy . He didn’ t see why they
should be wasted. He wanted to ask for two but that might be pushing it.
“No,” said his father . “Not this time, old buddy .” He patted Jimmy’ s leg.
“Drive u p the prices,” said the man. “Make a killing on their own stuf f,
that way .”
“It’ s a killing all right,” said Jim my’ s father in a disgusted tone. “But it
could’ve been just a nutbar . Some cult thing, you never know .”
“Why no t?” said  Jimmy . Nobody else wanted the horns. But this time his
father ignored him.
“The qu estion is , how did they do it?” he said. “I thought our p eople had
us sealed up tight as a drum.”
“I thoug ht they did too. W e fork  out enough. What were the guys doing?
They’re not paid to sleep.”
“It c ould’ve been bribery ,” said  Jimmy’ s father . “They’ll check out the
bank transfers, though you’d have to be pretty dumb to stick that kind of
money into a bank. Anyway , heads will roll.”
“Fine-tooth com b, and I wouldn ’ t want to be them,” said the m an. “Who
comes in from outside?”
“Guys who repair things. Delivery vans.”
“They should bring all that in-house.”
“I hear that’ s the plan,” said his father . “This bug is something new
though. W e’ve got the bioprint.”
“T wo can play at that game,” said the man.
“Any number can play ,” said Jimmy’ s father .
 
 
“Why were the cows and sheep on fire?” Jimmy asked his fathe r the next
day . The y were having breakfast, all three of them together , so i t must have
been a Sunday . That was the da y when his mother and his father were both
there at breakfast.Jimmy’ s father was on his second cup of cof fee. While he drank it, he
was making notes on a page covered with numbers. “They  had to be
burned,” he said, “to keep it from spreading.” He didn’ t look up; he was
fooling with his pocket calculator , jotting with his pencil.
“What from spreading?”
“The disease.”
“What’ s a disease?”
“A disease is like when you have a cough,” said his mother .
“If I have a cough, will I be burned up?”
“Most likely ,” said his father , turning over the page.
Jimmy w as frigh tened by this be cause he’d had a cough the week before.
He might get another one at any moment: already there was something
sticking in his throat. He could see his hair on fire, not just a strand or two
on a  saucer , but all of it, still attached to his head. He didn’ t want to be put
in a heap with the cows and pigs. He began to cry .
“How m any tim es do I have to tell you?” said his mother . “He’ s too
young.”
“Daddy’ s a monster once again,” said Jimmy’ s father . “It was a joke, pal.
Y ou know – joke. Ha ha.”
“He doesn’ t understand those kinds of jokes.”
“Sure he does. Don’ t you, Jimmy?”
“Y es,” said Jimmy , snif fling.
“Leave Daddy alone,” said his mother . “Daddy is thinking. That’ s what
they pay him for . He doesn’ t have time for you right now .”
His father threw down the pencil. “Cripes, can’ t you give it a rest?”
His mother stuck her cigarette in to her half-empty cof fee cup. “ Come on,
Jimmy , let’ s go for a walk.” She  hauled Jimmy up by one wrist, closed the
back door with exaggerated care behind them. She didn’ t ev en put their
coats on. No coats, no hats. She was in her dressing gown and slippers.The sky was grey , the wind chilly; she walked head down, her hair
blowing. Aroun d the house the y went, over the soggy lawn at a double-
quick pa ce, han d in hand. Jimm y felt he was being dragged through deep
water by  someth ing with an iron claw . He felt buf feted, as if everything was
about to be wre nched apart and whirled away . At the same time he felt
exhilarated. He watched his mother ’ s slippers: already they were stained
with damp earth. He’d get in big trouble if he did that to his own slippers.
They slo wed do wn, then stopped. Then his mother was talking to him in
the quiet, nice-lady TV -teacher v oice that meant she was furious . A disease,
she said , was invisible, because it was so small. It could fly through the air
or hide in the w ater , or on little boys’ dirty fingers, which w as why you
shouldn’ t stick your fingers up  your nose and then put them into your
mouth, and why you should alw ays wash your hands after you went to the
bathroom, and why you shouldn’ t wipe . . .
“I know ,” said Jimmy . “Can I go inside? I’m cold.”
His mot her acted as if she hadn’ t heard him. A disease, she con tinued in
that calm , stretc hed voice, a dise ase got into you and changed things inside
you. It rearranged you, cell by cell, and that made the cells sick. And since
you wer e all made up of tiny cells, working together to mak e sure you
stayed alive, and if enough of the cells got sick, then you . . .
“I could  get a co ugh,” said Jimmy . “I could get a cough, right now!” He
made a coughing sound.
“Oh, never mind,” said his mother . She often tried to explain things to
him; the n she got discouraged. These were the worst moments,  for both of
them. He resisted her , he pretended he didn’ t understand even when he did,
he acted stupid, but he didn’ t want her to give up on him. He wanted her to
be brave, to try her best with him, to hammer away at the wall he’d put up
against her , to keep on going.
“I want to hear about the tiny cells,” he said, whining as mu ch as he
dared. “I want to!”
“Not today ,” she said. “Let’ s just go in.”
 
 O r g a n I n c  F a r m s
Jimmy’ s father worked for Or ga nInc Farms. He was a genogra pher , one
of the best in the field. He’d do ne some of the key studies on mapping the
proteonome when he was still a  post-grad, and then he’d helped engineer
the Met huselah Mouse as part of Operation Immortality . After that, at
Or ganInc Farms, he’d been one of the foremost architects of the pigoon
project, along with a team of transplant experts and the microbiologists who
were splicing against infections. Pigoon  was only a nickname: the of ficial
name was sus multior ganifer . But pigoon was what everyone said.
Sometimes they  said Or gan-Oink Farms, but not as often. It wa sn’ t really a
farm anyway , not like the farms in pictures.
The goal of the pigoon project was to grow an assortment of foolproof
human-tissue or gans in a transgenic knockout pig host – or gans that would
transplant smoothly and avoid rejection, but would also be able to fend of f
attacks by opportunistic microbes and viruses, of which there were more
strains e very year . A rapid-maturity gene was spliced in so the pigoon
kidneys and livers and hearts would be ready sooner , and now they were
perfecting a pigoon that could grow five or six kidneys at a ti me. Such a
host ani mal cou ld be reaped of  its extra kidneys; then, rather  than being
destroyed, it could keep on livin g and grow more or gans, much as a lobster
could grow another claw to replace a missing one. That would be less
wasteful, as it took a lot of food and care to grow a pigoon. A great deal of
investment money had gone into Or ganInc Farms.
All of this was explained to Jimmy when he was old enough.
 
 
Old eno ugh, Snowman thinks as he scratches himself, around b ut not on
top of the insect bites. Such a dumb concept. Old enough fo r what? T o
drink, to fuck, to  know better? W hat fathead was in char ge of making those
decisions? For example, Snowm an himself isn’ t old enough for  this, this –
what can it be called? This situation. He’ll never be old enough, no sane
human being could ever . . .
Each one of us must tr ead the p ath laid out befor e him, or her , says the
voice in  his head, a man’ s this time, the style bogus guru, and each path isunique. It is not  the natur e of the path itself that should concern  the seeker ,
but the grace an d str ength and patience with which each and every one of
us follows the sometimes challenging  . . .
“Stuf f it,” says Snowman. Some cheap do-it-yourself enlightenment
handbook, Nirva na for halfwits. Though he has the nagging feeling that he
may well have written this gem himself.
In happier days, naturally . Oh, so much happier .
 
 
The pig oon or gans could be customized, using cells from i ndividual
human donors, and the or gans were frozen until needed. It was much
cheaper than getting yourself clo ned for spare parts – a few wrinkles left to
be ironed out there, as Jimmy’ s dad used to say – or keeping a for -harvest
child or  two stashed away in s ome illegal baby orchard. In th e Or ganInc
brochures and promotional materials, glossy and discreetly worded, stress
was laid on the ef ficacy and comparative health benefits of the pigoon
procedure. Also , to set the queasy at ease, it was claimed that none of the
defunct pigoons ended up as bac on and sausages: no one would want to eat
an animal whose cells might be identical with at least some of their own.
Still, as time w ent on and th e coastal aquifers turned salty and the
northern permafrost melted and  the vast tundra bubbled with methane, and
the drou ght in the midcontinen tal plains regions went on and on, and the
Asian steppes turned to sand dunes, and meat became harder to come by ,
some people had their doubt s. W ithin Or ganInc Farms itself it was
noticeable how often back baco n and ham sandwiches and pork  pies turned
up on the staf f café menu. André’ s Bistro was the of ficial name of the café,
but the regulars  called it Grun ts. When Jimmy had lunch the re with his
father , as he did  when his mother was feeling harried, the men and women
at nearby tables would make jokes in bad taste.
“Pigoon pie again,” they would say . “Pigoon pancakes, pigoon popcorn.
Come on, Jimmy , eat up!” This would upset Jimmy; he was confused about
who sho uld be allowed to eat what. He didn’ t want to eat a pigoon, because
he thoug ht of the pigoons as cr eatures much like himself. Neither he nor
they had a lot of say in what was going on.“Don’ t p ay any attention to them, sweetheart,” said Ramona. “They’re
only teasing, you know?” Ramona was one of his dad’ s lab technicians. She
often ate lunch with the two o f them, him and his dad. She was young,
younger than his father and even his mother; she looked something like the
picture o f the girl in the haircu t man’ s window , she had the same sort of
puf fed-out mout h, and big eyes like that, big and smudgy . But s he smiled a
lot, and she did n’ t have her h air in quills. Her hair was soft and dark.
Jimmy’ s mother ’ s hair was what she herself called dirty blonde . (“Not dirty
enough,” said his father . “Hey! Joke. Joke. Don’ t kill me!”)
Ramona would always have a s alad. “How’ s Sharon doing?” she would
say to Jimmy’ s father , looking  at him with her eyes wide a nd solemn.
Sharon was Jimmy’ s mother .
“Not so hot,” Jimmy’ s father would say .
“Oh, that’ s too bad.”
“It’ s a problem. I’m getting worried.”
Jimmy w atched Ramona eat. She took very small bites, and managed to
chew up the lettuce without crunching. The raw carrots too. That was
amazing, as if she could liquefy those hard, crisp foods and suck them into
herself, like an alien mosquito creature on DVD.
“Maybe she should, I don’ t know , see someone?” Ramona’ s eyebrows
lifted in concern. She had mauve powder on her eyelids, a little too much; it
made th em crinkly . “They can do all sorts of things, there’ s so  many new
pills . . .” Ramona was supposed to be a tech genius but she talked like a
shower -gel babe in an ad. She wasn’ t stupid, said Jimmy’ s dad, she just
didn’ t w ant to put her neuron power into long sentences. There were a lot of
people like that at Or ganInc, and not all of them were wom en. It was
because they were numbers peo ple, not word people, said Jim my’ s father .
Jimmy already knew that he himself was not a numbers person.
“Don’ t think I haven’ t suggested it, I asked around, found the top guy ,
made th e appointment, but she wouldn’ t go,” said Jimmy’ s father , looking
down at the table. “She’ s got her own ideas.”
“It’ s such a shame, a waste. I mean, she was so smart!”“Oh, she’ s still smart enough,”  said Jimmy’ s father . “She’ s g ot smart
coming out of her ears.”
“But she used to be so, you know . . .”
Ramona’ s fork would slide out of her fingers, and the two of them would
stare at each other as if searching for the perfect adjective to describe what
Jimmy’ s mother  used to be. Then they’d notice Jimmy listening, and beam
their attention down on him like extraterrestrial rays. W ay too bright.
“So, Jimmy sweetheart, how’ s it going at school?”
“Eat up, old buddy , eat the crusts, put some hair on your chest!”
“Can I go look at the pigoons?” Jimmy would say .
 
 
The pig oons were much bigger and fatter than ordinary pigs, to leave
room for all of  the extra or ga ns. They were kept in specia l buildings,
heavily secured: the kidnapping of a pigoon and its finely honed genetic
material by a riv al outfit would have been a disaster . When Jimmy went in
to vi sit the pigoons he had to put on a biosuit that was too big f or him, and
wear a face ma sk, and wash his hands first with disinfectant soap. He
especially liked the small pigoo ns, twelve to a sow and lined u p in a row ,
guzzling milk. Pigoonlets. The y were cute. But the adults were slightly
frightening, with their runny noses and tiny , white-lashed pink eyes. They
glanced up at hi m as if they saw him, really saw him, and might have plans
for him later .
“Pigoon, balloon, pigoon, balloon,” he would chant to pacify them,
hanging over the edge of the pen . Right after the pens had been washed out
they didn’ t smell too bad. He w as glad he didn’ t live in a pen, where he’d
have to lie around in poop and pee. The pigoons had no toilet s and did it
anywhere; this caused him a vague sensation of shame. But he hadn’ t wet
his bed for a long time, or he didn’ t think he had.
“Don’ t fall in,” said his father . “They’ll eat you up in a minute.”
“No the y won’ t,” said Jimmy . Because I’m their friend, he thought.
Because I sing to them. He wished he had a long stick, so he  could pokethem – not to hurt them, just to make them run around. They spent far too
much time doing nothing.
 
 
When Jimmy was really little they’d lived in a Cape Cod–sty le frame
house in  one of the Modules – t here were pictures of him, in a carry-cot on
the porch, with dates and everyt hing, stuck into a photo album at some time
when his mother was still bothering – but now they lived  in a lar ge
Geor gian centre-plan with an indoor swimming pool and a sma ll gym. The
furniture in it w as called r epr oduction . Jim my was q uite old before he
realized what this word meant – that for each reproduction item, there was
supposed to be an original somewhere. Or there had bee n once. Or
something.
The house, the pool, the furn iture – all belonged to the Or ganInc
Compound, where the top people lived. Increasingly , the middle-range
execs an d the junior scientists lived there too. Jimmy’ s father  said it was
better th at way , because nobody  had to commute to work from th e Modules.
Despite the sterile transport corridors and the high-speed bullet trains, there
was always a risk when you went through the city .
Jimmy had never been to the city . He’d only seen it on TV – endless
billboards and neon signs and s tretches of buildings, tall and short; endless
dingy-looking s treets, countless vehicles of all kinds, some of them with
clouds o f smoke coming out the back; thousands of people, hurrying,
cheering, rioting . There were ot her cities too, near and far; some had better
neighbourhoods in them, said his father , almost like the Comp ounds, with
high walls around the houses, but those didn’ t get on TV much.
Compound peop le didn’ t go to  the cities unless they had to, and then
never alone. They called the cities the pleeblands . D espit e the fingerprint
identity cards now carried by everyone, public security in the pleeblands
was leak y: there were people c ruising around in those places who could
for ge an ything a nd who might b e anybody , not to mention the loose change
– the addicts, the muggers, th e paupers, the crazies. So it was best for
everyone at Or ganInc Farms to live all in one place, wit h foolproof
procedures.Outside the Or ganInc walls and gates and searchlights, things were
unpredictable. In side, they were the way it used to be when Jimmy’ s father
was a kid, befor e things got so serious, or that’ s what Jimmy’ s  father said.
Jimmy’ s mother  said it was all artificial, it was just a theme park and you
could ne ver bring the old ways back, but Jimmy’ s father said wh y knock it?
Y ou could walk around without fear , couldn’ t you? Go for a bike ride, sit at
a sid ewalk café, buy an ice-cream cone? Jimmy knew his father was right,
because he himself had done all of these things.
Still, the CorpSeCorps men – th e ones Jimmy’ s father called our people  –
these m en had to be on constan t alert. When there was so much at stake,
there wa s no telling what the ot her side might resort to. The other side, or
the other sides: i t wasn’ t just on e other side you had to watch out for . Other
companies, other countries, various factions and plotters. There was too
much hardware around, said Jim my’ s father . T oo much hardware, too much
software, too many hostile bioforms, too many weapons of ever y kind. And
too much envy and fanaticism and bad faith.
Long ago, in th e days of knights and dragons, the kings and d ukes had
lived in castles, with high walls and drawbridges and slots on the ramparts
so y ou could po ur hot pitch on your enemies, said Jimmy’ s fat her , and the
Compounds were the same idea. Castles were for keeping you and your
buddies nice and safe inside, and for keeping everybody else outside.
“So are we the kings and dukes?” asked Jimmy .
“Oh, absolutely ,” said his father , laughing.
 
 L u n c h
At o ne time Jimmy’ s mother ha d worked for Or ganInc Farms. That was
how his mother had met his father: they’d both worked at the same
Compound, on the same project. His mother was a microbiologist: it had
been her job to study the proteins of the bioforms unhealthy to p igoons, and
to modify their receptors in such a way that they could not bond with the
receptors on pigoon cells, or else to develop drugs that would act as
blockers.
“It’ s ver y simpl e,” she said to Jimmy in one of her explaining moods.
“The ba d microbes and viruses w ant to get in through the cell d oors and eat
up t he p igoons from the inside. Mummy’ s job was to make lo cks for the
doors.” On her computer screen she showed Jimmy pictures o f the cells,
pictures of the m icrobes, picture s of the microbes getting into the cells and
infecting them and bursting the m open, close-up pictures of t he proteins,
pictures of the drugs she had once tested. The pictures looked like the candy
bins at the super market: a clear plastic bin of round candies, a clear plastic
bin of jelly bea ns, a clear plastic bin of long licorice twizzles. The cells
were like the clear plastic bins, with the lids you could lift up.
“Why aren’ t you making the locks for the doors any more?” said Jimmy .
“Because I wanted to stay home  with you,” she said, looking over the top
of Jimmy’ s head and puf fing on her cigarette.
“What about the pigoons?” said  Jimmy , alarmed. “The microbes will get
into them!” He didn’ t want his animal pals to burst open like the infected
cells.
“Other people are in char ge of that now ,” said his mother . She didn’ t
seem to care at all. She let Jimm y play with the pictures on her computer ,
and once he learned how to run the programs, he could play war games with
them – cells versus microbes. She said it was all right if he lost stuf f of f the
computer , becau se all that material was out of date anyway . Though on
some da ys – days when she app eared brisk and purposeful, and aimed, and
steady –  she would want to fool around on the computer herself. He liked it
when sh e did that – when she  seemed to be enjoying herself. She wasfriendly then, too. She was like a real mother and he was like a real child.
But those moods of hers didn’ t last long.
When h ad she stopped working  at the lab? When Jimmy started at the
Or ganInc Schoo l full-time, in the first grade. Which didn’ t m ake sense,
because if she’d wanted to stay home with Jimmy , why had she started
doing that when Jimmy stopped being at home? Jimmy could never figure
out the reasons, and when he’d first heard this explanation he’d been too
young to  even think about them. All he’d known was that Dolor es, the live-
in fr om the Phi lippines, had been sent away , and he’d missed her a lot.
She’d called him Jim-Jim and had smiled and laughed and cooked his egg
just the way he liked it, and had  sung songs and indulged him. But Dolores
had to go, becau se now Jimmy’ s real mummy would be there all the time –
this was  held out to him like a treat – and nobody needed two mummies,
did they?
Oh yes they did, thinks Snowman. Oh yes, they really did.
 
 
Snowman has a clear image of his mother – of Jimmy’ s mother – sitting
at the kitchen table, still in her bathrobe when he came home from school
for his lunch. She would have a cup of cof fee in front of her , unt ouched; she
would be looking out the window and smoking. The bathrobe was magenta,
a colour that still makes him anxious whenever he sees it. As a rule there
would be no lun ch ready for him and he would have to make it himself, his
mother ’ s only participation being to issue directions in a flat voice. (“The
milk’ s in the fridge. T o the right. No, the right . D on’ t you kno w which is
your rig ht hand? ”) She sounded so tired; maybe she was tired of him. Or
maybe she was sick.
“Are you infected?” he asked her one day .
“What do you mean, Jimmy?”
“Like the cells.”
“Oh. I see. No, I’m not,” she sa id. Then, after a moment, “May be I am.”
But when his face crumpled, she took it back.More th an anything, Jimmy had wanted to make her laugh – to make her
happy , as he seemed to rememb er her being once. He would tell her funny
things th at had happened at sc hool, or things he tried to make funny , or
things he simply invented. (“Carrie Johnston went poo on the  floor .”) He
would caper around the room, crossing his eyes and cheeping like a
monkey , a trick that worked with several of the little girls in his class and
almost a ll of the boys. He would put peanut butter on his nos e and try to
lick it of f with his tongue. Most of the time these activities just irritated his
mother: “That is not amusing, t hat is disgusting.” “Stop it, Jimmy , you’re
giving me a hea dache.” But then he might get a smile out of her , or more.
He never knew what would work.
Once in a while there would be a real lunch waiting for him, a l unch that
was so arrange d and extravagant it frightened him, for wh at was the
occasion? Place  setting, paper n apkin – colour ed  paper napkin, like parties
– th e sa ndwich peanut butter and jelly , his preferred combo; only it would
be open -face an d round, a pean ut butter head with a jelly smile-face. His
mother w ould b e carefully dressed, her lipstick smile an echo of the jelly
smile on the sandwich, and she would be all sparkling attention, for him and
his silly stories, looking at him directly , her eyes bluer than blue. What she
reminded him of at such times was a porcelain sink: clean, shining, hard.
He knew  he was expected to app reciate all the ef fort she had put into this
lunch, an d so he too made an ef fort. “Oh boy , my favourite!” he  would say ,
rolling h is eyes, rubbing his stomach in a caricature of hunger , o verdoing it.
But he’d get what he wanted, because then she would laugh.
As h e grew older and more devious, he found that on the days  when he
couldn’ t grab some approval, he  could at least get a reaction. An ything was
better than the flat voice, the blank eyes, the tired staring out of the window .
“Can I have a cat?” he would begin.
“No, Jimmy , you cannot have a cat. W e’ve been over this before. Cats
might carry diseases that would be bad for the pigoons.”
“But you don’ t care.” This in a sly voice.
A sigh, a puf f of smoke. “Other people care.”
“Can I have a dog then?”“No. No dogs either . Can’ t you find something to do in your room?”
“Can I have a parrot?”
“No. Now stop it.” She wouldn’ t really be listening.
“Can I have nothing?”
“No.”
“Oh good,” he would crow . “I can’ t have nothing! So I get to have
something! What do I get to have?”
“Jimmy , sometimes you are a pain in the ass, do you know that?”
“Can I have a baby sister?”
“No!”
“A baby brother then? Please?”
“No means no! Didn’ t you hear me? I said no!”
“Why not?”
That was the key , that would do it. She might start crying and  jump up
and run out of t he room, banging the door behind her , whuf f. Or else she
might st art cryi ng and hugging him. Or she might throw the cof fee cup
across th e room and start yelling , “It’ s all shit, it’ s total shit, it’ s hopeless!”
She might even slap him, and  then cry and hug him. It co uld be any
combination of those things.
Or it would just be the crying,  with her head down on her a rms. She
would shake all over , gasp for breath, choking and sobbing. H e wouldn’ t
know what to do then. He loved her so much when he made her unhappy , or
else when she made him unha ppy: at these moments he sca rcely knew
which was which. He would pat her , standing well back as with strange
dogs, str etching out his hand, s aying, “I’m sorry , I’m sorry .” A nd he was
sorry , bu t there was more to it: he was also gloating, congratulating himself,
because he’d managed to create such an ef fect.
He w as frightened, as well. Th ere was always that knife-edge: had he
gone too far? And if he had, what came next?
 
 N o o n e r s
Noon is  the worst, with its glar e and humidity . At about eleve n o’clock
Snowman retreats back into the forest, out of sight of the sea altogether ,
because the evil rays bounce of f the water and get at him even if he’ s
protected from the sky , and then he reddens and blisters. What he could
really us e is a t ube of heavy-duty sunblock, supposing he could ever find
one.
In the first week, when he’d had  more ener gy , he’d made himself a lean-
to, u sing fallen branches and a roll of duct tape and a plastic tarp  he’d found
in the trunk of a smashed-up car . At that time he’d had a knife, but he lost it
a we ek later , or was it two weeks? He must keep better track of such things
as w eeks. The knife was one of those pocket items with two bla des, an awl,
a tiny saw , a nail file, and a cor kscrew . Also a little pair of scissors, which
he’d used to cut his toenails and the duct tape as well. He regrets the loss of
the scissors.
He was given a  knife like that for his ninth birthday , by his fa ther . His
father was always giving him tools, trying to make him more practical. In
his fathe r ’ s opinion Jimmy couldn’ t screw in a light bulb. So who wants to
scr ew in a light bulb?  s ays the voice i n Snowman’ s head, a stand-up comic
this time. I’d rather do it in bed.
“Shut up,” says Snowman.
“Did you give h im a dollar?” Or yx had asked him when he told her about
the knife.
“No. Why?”
“Y ou need to give money when someone gives you a knife. So the bad
luck won’ t cut you. I wouldn’ t like it for you to be cut by the bad luck,
Jimmy .”
“Who told you that?”
“Oh, someone,” said Oryx. Someone  played a big part in her life.
“Someone who?” Jimmy hated him, this someone – faceless, eyeless,
mocking, all hands and dick, now singular , now double, now a multitude –
but Oryx had her mouth right next to his ear and was whisperi ng, Oh , oh ,some , one , and  lau ghing a t the same time , so how could he concentrate on
his stupid old hate?
 
 
In th e sh ort period of the lean-to he’d slept on a fold-up cot he’d dragged
from a bungalow half a mile away , a metal frame with a foam mattress on
top of a grillwork of springs. Th e first night he’d been attacked by ants, and
so h e’d f illed fo ur tin cans with water and stuck the cot legs into them. That
put a stop to the ants. But the build-up of hot, damp air under the tarp was
too unco mfortable: at night, at ground level, with no breeze, the humidity
felt like a hundred per cent: his breath fogged the plastic.
Also the rakunks were a nuis ance, scuf fling through the leaves and
snif fing at his toes, nosing arou nd him as if he were already g arbage; and
one mor ning he’d woken to find three pigoons gazing in at him  through the
plastic. One was a male; he tho ught he could see the gleaming point of a
white tu sk. Pigoons were supposed to be tusk-free, but mayb e they were
reverting to type now they’d go ne feral, a fast-forward process considering
their rapid-matu rity genes. He’d shouted at them and waved his arms and
they’d run of f, but who could tell what they might do the nex t time they
came around? Them, or the wolvogs: it wouldn’ t take them forever to figure
out that he no lo nger had a spraygun. He’d thrown it away wh en he’d run
out of virtual bullets for it. Dumb not to have swiped a rechar ger for it: a
mistake, like setting up his sleeping quarters at ground level.
So he’d moved to the tree. No pigoons or wolvogs up there,  and few
rakunks: they preferred the under growth. He’d constructed a rough platform
in the main branches out of scr ap wood and duct tape. It’ s not a bad job:
he’ s always been handier at putting things together than his father gave him
credit for . At first he’d taken the foam mattress up there, but he  had to toss
it when it began to mildew , and to smell tantalizingly of tomato soup.
The plastic tarp on the lean-to was torn away during an unusually violent
storm. The bed frame remains, however; he can still use it at noon. He’ s
found that if he  stretches out o n it flat on his back, with his arms spread
wide and his sheet of f, like a saint arranged ready for frying, it’ s better thanlying on the ground: at least he can get some air on all the surfaces of his
body .
From no where, a word appears: Mesozoic . He can see the  word, he can
hear the word, b ut he can’ t reac h the word. He can’ t attach anything to it.
This is happening too much lat ely , this dissolution of meaning, the entries
on his cherished wordlists drifting of f into space.
“It’ s only the h eat,” he tells hi mself. “I’ll be fine once it rains.” He’ s
sweating so hard he can almost  hear it; trickles of sweat crawl down him,
except th at some times the trickles are insects. He appears to be attractive to
beetles. Beetles , flies, bees, as  if he’ s dead meat, or one of the nastier
flowers.
The best thing a bout the noon ho urs is that at least he doesn’ t get hungry:
even the thought of food makes him queasy , like chocolate cake in a steam
bath. He wishes he could cool himself by hanging out his tongue.
 
 
Now the sun is at full glare; the zenith, it used to be called. Snowman lies
splayed out on t he grillwork of the bed, in the liquid shade, giv ing himself
up to the heat. Let’ s pr e tend this is a vacation!  A schoolteacher ’ s voice this
time, perky , condescending. Ms. Stratton Call-Me-Sally , with the big butt.
Let’ s pr etend this , let’ s pr etend that . Th ey spent the first three years of
school g etting y ou to pretend stuf f and then the rest of it marking you down
if yo u di d the same thing. Let’ s pr etend I’m her e with you, big butt and all,
getting r eady to suck your brains right out your dick.
Is th ere a faint  stirring? He lo oks down at himself: no acti on. Sally
Stratton vanishe s, and just as well. He has to find more and better ways of
occupying his time. His time , w hat a bankrup t idea, as if he’ s been given a
box of time bel onging to him alone, stuf fed to the brim with hours and
minutes that he can spend like money . T rouble is, the box has ho les in it and
the time is running out, no matter what he does with it.
He mig ht whittle, for instance. Make a chess set, play games with
himself. He used to play chess with Crake but they’d played b y computer ,
not with  actual chessmen. Crak e won mostly . There must be another knife
somewhere; if he sets his mind  to it, goes foraging, scrapes around in theleftovers, he’d be sure to find one. Now that he’ s thought of it he’ s surprised
he hasn’ t thought of it before.
He l ets himself drift back to tho se after -school times with Crake. It was
harmless enoug h at first. They might play Extinctathon, or one of the
others. Three-D imensional W a co, Barbarian Stomp, Kwikti me Osama.
They all  used parallel strategie s: you had to see where you w ere headed
before you got t here, but also w here the other guy was headed. Crake was
good at those ga mes because he was a master of the sideways l eap. Jimmy
could so metimes win at Kwiktime Osama though, as long as Crake played
the Infidel side.
No hope of whittling that kind  of game, however . It would have to be
chess.
Or h e co uld keep a diary . Set do wn his impressions. There must be lots of
paper ly ing arou nd, in unburned interior spaces that are still leak-free, and
pens and  pencil s; he’ s seen the m on his scavenging forays bu t he’ s never
bothered taking any . He could emulate the captains of ships, in olden times
– th e ship going down in a sto rm, the captain in his cabin, doomed but
intrepid, filling in the logbook. There were movies like that. Or castaways
on d esert islands, keeping the ir journals day by tedious day . Lists of
supplies, notations on the weather , small actions performed – th e sewing on
of a button, the devouring of a clam.
He too is a castaway of sorts. H e could make lists. It could give his life
some structure.
But eve n a castaway assumes a future reader , someone who’ll come
along la ter and find his bones and his ledger , and learn his fate. Snowman
can make no such assumptions: he’ll have no future reader , because the
Crakers can’ t read. Any reader he can possibly imagine is in the past.
 
 
A ca terpillar is l etting itself down on a thread, twirling slowly like a rope
artist, sp iralling towards his chest. It’ s a luscious, unreal green, like a
gumdrop, and covered with tiny bright hairs. W atching it, he feels a sudden,
inexplicable sur ge of tenderness and joy . Unique, he thinks. There willnever be  anothe r caterpillar just like this one. There will never be another
such moment of time, another such conjunction.
These things sneak up on him for no reason, these flashes of irrational
happiness. It’ s probably a vitamin deficiency .
The cate rpillar p auses, feeling around in the air with its blunt head. Its
huge opaque eyes look like the front end of a riot-gear helmet . Maybe it’ s
smelling him, picking up on his  chemical aura. “W e are not here to play , to
dream, to drift,” he says to it. “W e have hard work to do, and loads to lift.”
Now , wh at atrop hying neural cistern in his brain did that come f rom? The
Life Ski lls class , in junior high.  The teacher had been a shambling neo-con
reject fr om the heady days of the legendary dot.com bubb le, back in
prehistory . He’d  had a stringy ponytail stuck to the back of his balding
head, an d a faux-leather jacket; he’d worn a gold stud in his bumpy , porous
old nose, and had pushed self-reliance and individualism and risk-taking in
a hopeless tone, as if even he no longer believed in them. Onc e in a while
he’d com e out with some hoary maxim, served up with a wry ir ony that did
nothing to reduce the boredom quotient; or else he’d say , “I coulda been a
contender ,” then glare meanin gfully at the class as if there was some
deeper -than-deep point they were all supposed to get.
Double-entry on-screen bookkeeping, banking by fingertip, using a
microwave without nuking you r egg, filling out housing applications for
this or that Module and job app lications for this or that Compo und, family
heredity researc h, negotiating your own marriage-and-divorce contracts,
wise genetic match-mating, the  proper use of condoms to avoid sexually
transmitted biof orms: those had been the Life Skills. None of t he kids had
paid much attention. They either knew it already or didn’ t want to. They’d
treated the class as a rest hour . W e ar e not her e  to play , to dr eam, to drift.
W e ar e her e to practise Life Skills.
“Whatever ,” says Snowman.
 
 
Or , instead of ch ess or a journal, he could focus on his living conditions.
There’ s room for improvement i n that department, a lot of room. More food
sources, for one thing. Why didn ’ t he ever bone up on roots and  berries andpointed-stick traps for skewering small game, and how to eat snakes? Why
had he wasted his time?
Oh honey , don’ t beat yourself up!  brea thes a fema le voice, regretfully , in
his ear .
If only he could  find a cave, a nice cave with a high ceiling and good
ventilation and maybe some running water , he’d be better of f. T rue, there’ s
a str eam with fr esh water a qua rter of a mile away; at one plac e it widens
into a pool. Initially he’d gone there to cool of f, but the Crake rs might be
splashing around in it or resting on the banks, and the kids would pester him
to go swimming , and he didn’ t like being seen by them without his sheet.
Compared to them he is just too  weird; they make him feel deformed. If not
people, there might well be animals: wolvogs, pigoons, bobkittens.
W atering holes attract carnivo res. They lie in wait. They slaver . They
pounce. Not very cozy .
The clouds are building, the sk y darkening. He can’ t see much through
the trees but he senses the change in light. He slides of f into half-sleep and
dreams o f Oryx,  floating on her back in a swimming pool, wearing an outfit
that appears to be made of delicate white tissue-paper petals. They spread
out a round her , e xpanding and contracting like the valves of a je llyfish. The
pool is painted a vibrant pink. She smiles up at him and mov es her arms
gently to  keep afloat, and he k nows they are both in great danger . Then
there’ s a hollow booming sound, like the door of a great vault shutting.
 
 D o w n p o u r
He awak es to thunder and a su dden wind: the afternoon storm is upon
him. He  scramb les to his feet, grabs his sheet. Those howlers can come on
very fas t, and a metal bed fram e in a thunderstorm is no place to be. He’ s
built him self an island of car tire s back in the woods; it’ s simply a matter of
crouching on them, keeping their insulation between himself and the ground
until the storm i s over . Sometimes there are hailstones as big as golf balls,
but the forest canopy slows their fall.
He r eaches the pile of tires just as the storm breaks. T oday it’ s only rain,
the usua l deluge, so heavy the impact turns the air to mist. W ater sluices
down onto him as the lightning sizzles. Branches thrash around overhead,
rivulets amble along the groun d. Already it’ s cooling down; the scent of
freshly washed leaves and wet earth fills the air .
Once the rain h as slowed to a drizzle and the rumbles of thun der have
receded, he slogs back to his cement-slab cache to collect the empty beer
bottles. Then he makes his way to a jagged concrete overhang that was once
part of a bridge. Beneath it ther e’ s a triangular orange sign wi th the black
silhouette of a man shovelling. M en at W ork, that used to mean. Strange to
think of  the endless labour , the digging, the hammering, the carving, the
lifting, the drilling, day by day , year by year , century by century; and now
the e ndless crumbling that must be going on everywhere. Sandc astles in the
wind.
Runof f is pouring through a ho le in the side of the concrete. H e stands
under it with his  mouth open, gu lping water full of grit and twigs and other
things he  doesn’ t want to think about – the water must have foun d a channel
through derelict houses and pungent cellars and clotted-up ditches and who
knows what else. Then he rinses himself of f, wrings out his sheet. He
doesn’ t get himself very clean th is way , but at least he can shed  the surface
layer of grime and scum. It would be useful to have a bar of soap: he keeps
for getting to pick one up during his pilfering excursions.
Lastly h e fills up the beer bottle s. He should get himself a better vessel, a
Thermos or a pa il – something that would hold more. Also the bottles are
awkward: they’r e slippery and hard to position. He keeps imagining he canstill smell beer i nside them, though it’ s only wishful thinking. Let’ s pr etend
this is beer .
He shou ldn’ t have brought that up. He shouldn’ t torture himself. He
shouldn’ t dangle impossibilities in front of himself, as if he were some
caged, wired-up  lab animal, trapped into performing futile and perverse
experiments on his own brain.
Get me out! he hears himself thinking. But he isn’ t locked up, he’ s not in
prison. What could be more out  than where he is?
“I didn’ t do it on purpose,” he says, in the snivelling child’ s voice he
reverts t o in this mood. “Things happened, I had no idea, it was out of my
control! What could I have d one? Just someone, anyone, listen to me
please!”
What a bad performance. Even  he isn’ t convinced by it. But now he’ s
weeping again.
It is important , say s the book in his head, to ignor e minor irritants, to
avoid pointless r epinings, and to turn one’ s mental ener gies to immediate
r ealities and to the tasks at hand . He must have read that somewhere.
Surely his own mind would never have come up with pointless r epinings ,
not all by itself.
He wipes his face on a corner o f the sheet. “Pointless repinings,” he says
out loud. As often, he feels he has a listener: someone unseen, hidden
behind the screen of leaves, watching him slyly .
 
 R a k u n k
He does have a listener: it’ s a rakunk, a young one. He can see it now , its
bright eyes peering out at him from under a bush.
“Here g irl, here girl,” he says to it coaxingly . It backs away into the
underbrush. If he worked at it, if  he really tried, he could probably tame one
of th ose, and then he’d have someone to talk to. Someone to talk to was
nice, Oryx used to tell him. “Y ou should try it sometime, Jimmy ,” she’d say ,
kissing him on the ear .
“But I talk to you,” he’d protest.
Another kiss. “Do you?”
 
 
When Jimmy was ten he’d been given a pet rakunk, by his father .
What did his fa ther look like? Snowman can’ t get a fix on it. Jimmy’ s
mother persists as a clear image, full colour , with a glossy white paper
frame ar ound he r like a Polaroid, but he can recall his father only in details:
the Adam’ s apple going up and down when he swallowed, the ears backlit
against the kitchen window , the left hand lying on the table, cut of f by the
shirt cuf f. His father is a sort of pastiche. Maybe Jimmy could n ever get far
enough away from him to see all the parts at once.
The occasion for the gift of the rakunk must have been his birth day . He’ s
repressed his birthdays: they weren’ t a matter for general celebration, not
after Do lores th e live-in Philippina left. When she was there, she’d always
remember his birthday; she’d m ake a cake, or maybe she’d buy one, but
anyway there it would be, a genuine cake, with icing and candles – isn’ t that
true? He clutches on to the reality of those cakes; he closes his eyes,
conjures them up, hovering all in  a row , their candles alight, giving of f their
sweet, comforting scent of vanilla, like Dolores herself.
His mot her on the other hand could never seem to recall how o ld Jimmy
was or what day he was born. H e’d have to remind her , at breakfast; then
she’d snap out of her trance and buy him some mortifying present –
pyjamas for little kids with kangaroos or bears on them, a d isk nobody
under forty would ever listen to, underwear ornamented with w hales – andtape it up in tissue paper and dump it on him at the dinner table, smiling her
increasingly weird smile, as if someone had yelled Smile!  a nd goosed her
with a fork.
Then his father would put them  all through an awkward excuse about
why this  really , really special and important date had somehow just slid out
of his head, and  ask Jimmy if everything was okay , and send  him an e-
birthday card – the Or ganInc standard design with five winged pigoons
doing a conga line and Happy B irthday , Jimmy , May All Y our Dr eams Come
T rue  – and come up with a gift for him the day after , a gift that wo uld not
be a  gift but some tool or intelligence-enhancing game or o ther hidden
demand that he measure up. Bu t measure up to what? There was never any
standard; or there was one, but it was so cloudy and immense that nobody
could se e it, especially not Jimmy . Nothing he could achieve would ever be
the right idea, or enough. By Or ganInc’ s math-and-chem-and-applied-bio
yardstick he must have seemed dull normal: maybe that was why his father
stopped telling him he could do much better if he’d only try , and switched
to doling out secretly disappointed praise, as if Jimmy had a brain injury .
So Snowman has for gotten everything else about Jimmy’ s tenth birthday
except th e rakun k, brought home by his father in a carry-cage. I t was a tiny
one, sm allest of  the litter born from the second generation of rakunks, the
of fspring of the first pair that h ad been spliced. The rest of the litter had
been snapped up immediately . Jimmy’ s father made out that he’d had to
spend a great deal of his time and throw his weight around and pull a lot of
strings to get hold of this one, but all the ef fort had been worth it for this
really , really special day , which had just happened as usual to fall on the day
before.
The raku nks had begun as an after -hours hobby on the part of o ne of the
Or ganInc biolab hotshots. Ther e’d been a lot of fooling around in those
days: cre ate-an-animal was so much fun, said the guys doing it; it made you
feel like God. A number of the experiments were destroyed b ecause they
were to o dangerous to have a round – who needed a cane toad with a
prehensile tail like a chameleon ’ s that might climb in through the bathroom
window and blind you while you were brushing your teeth? Then there was
the snat, an unf ortunate blend of snake and rat: they’d had to get rid of
those. But the rakunks caught on as pets, inside Or ganInc. They hadn’ tcome in from the outside world – the world outside the Compound – so
they had no foreign microbes an d were safe for the pigoons. In addition to
which they were cute.
The little rakunk let Jimmy pick it up. It was black and white – black
mask, w hite stri pe down its ba ck, black and white rings aroun d its fluf fy
tail. It licked Jimmy’ s fingers, and he fell in love with it.
“No sm ell to it, not like a sku nk,” said Jimmy’ s father . “It’ s a clean
animal, with a n ice disposition. Placid. Racoons never made good pets once
they were grown up, they got cr abby , they’d tear your house to pieces. This
thing is supposed to be calmer .  W e’ll see how the little guy d oes. Right,
Jimmy?”
Jimmy’ s father had been apo logetic towards him lately , as if he’d
punished Jimmy for something Jimmy hadn’ t done and was so rry about it.
He w as saying Right, Jimmy?  a bit too much. Jimmy didn’ t like that – he
didn’ t like being the one handi ng out the good marks. There were a few
other moves of his father ’ s he  could do without as well – the sucker
punches, the ruf fling of the hair , the way of pronouncing the wo rd son , in a
slightly deeper voice. This hearty way of talking was getting worse, as if his
father w ere audi tioning for the r ole of Dad, but without much hope. Jimmy
had done enough faking himself so he could spot it in others, most of the
time. He stroked the little rakunk and didn’ t answer .
“Who’ s going to feed it and em pty the litter box?” said Jimmy’ s mother .
“Because it won’ t be me.” She  didn’ t say this angrily , but in a detached,
matter -of-fact voice, as if she was a bystander , someone on the sidelines; as
if Jimmy and the chore of taking care of him, and his unsatisfactory father ,
and the scuf fling s between her and him, and the increasingly heavy baggage
of a ll th eir lives , had nothing to  do with her . She didn’ t seem t o get angry
any more, she didn’ t go char ging out of the house in her slippers. She had
become slowed-down and deliberate.
“Jimmy hasn’ t asked you to. He’ll do it himself. Right, Jimmy?” said his
father .
“What a re you going to call it?” said his mother . She didn’ t reall y want to
know , she was getting at Jimm y in some way . She didn’ t like it when he
warmed up to anything his father gave him. “Bandit, I suppose.”That wa s exactl y the name Jim my had been thinking of, becau se of the
black mask. “No,” he said. “That’ s boring. I’m calling him Killer .”
“Good choice, son,” said his father .
“W ell, i f Killer wets on the floor , be sure you clean it up,” said his
mother .
Jimmy took Killer up to his roo m, where it made a nest in his pillow . It
did h ave a faint smell, strange but not unpleasant, leathery and s harp, like a
bar o f designer soap for men. He slept with his arm crooked ar ound it, his
nose next to its own small nose.
 
 
It must have been a month or two after he got the rakunk that Jimmy’ s
father changed jobs. He was h eadhunted by NooSkins and hired at the
second-in-command level – th e V ice level, Jimmy’ s mother called it.
Ramona the lab tech from Or gan Inc made the move with him; she was part
of the deal because she was an invaluable asset, said Jimmy’ s father; she
was his right-hand man. (“Joke,” he would say to Jimmy , to show that he
knew Ra mona w asn’ t really a m an. But Jimmy knew that anyway .) Jimmy
was more or less glad he might still be seeing Ramona at lunch – at least
she was someone familiar – even though his lunches with his father had
become few in number and far between.
NooSkins was a subsidiary of H elthW yzer , and so they moved into the
HelthW yzer Com pound. Their house this time was in the style o f the Italian
Renaissance, with an arched portico and a lot of glazed earth-tone tiles, and
the indo or pool was bigger . Jimmy’ s mother called it “this barn.” She
complained about the tight security at the HelthW yzer gates – the guards
were ruder , they were suspicio us of everyone, they liked to strip search
people, women especially . They got a kick out of it, she said.
Jimmy’ s father said she was making a big deal about nothing. Anyway ,
he said, there’d been an incident only a few weeks before they’d moved in –
some fa natic, a woman, with a  hostile bioform concealed in a hairspray
bottle. Some vicious Ebola o r Marbur g splice, one of th e fortified
hemorrhagics. She’d nuked a guard who’d unwisely had his fac e mask of f,
contrary to orders but because of the heat. The woman  had beenspraygunned at once and neutra lized in a vat of bleach, and the  poor guard
had been  whiske d into HotBioform and stuck into an isolation room, where
he’d dis solved i nto a puddle of goo. No greater damage done, but naturally
the guards were jumpy .
Jimmy’ s mother said that didn’ t change the fact that she felt like a
prisoner . Jimmy ’ s father said she didn’ t understand the reality of the
situation. Didn’ t she want to be safe, didn’ t she want her son to be safe?
“So it’ s for my own good?” she said. She was cutting a piece of French
toast into even-sided cubes, taking her time.
“For our  own good. For us.”
“W ell, I happen to disagree.”
“No news there,” said Jimmy’ s father .
According to Jimmy’ s mother th eir phones and e-mail were bug ged, and
the sturdy , laconic HelthW yzer  housecleaners that came twice a week –
always i n pairs – were spies. Jim my’ s father said she was gettin g paranoid,
and anyway they had nothing to hide, so why worry about it?
The HelthW yzer Compound was not only newer than the Or ganInc
layout, it was bigger . It had two shopping malls instead of o ne, a better
hospital, three dance clubs, eve n its own golf course. Jimmy went to the
HelthW yzer Public School, whe re at first he didn’ t know anyone. Despite
his initial loneliness, that wasn’ t too bad. Actually it was good, because he
could re cycle hi s old routines a nd jokes: the kids at Or ganInc had become
used to his antics. He’d moved  on from the chimpanzee act and was into
fake vomiting and choking to death – both popular – and a thing where he
drew a bare-nak ed girl on his stomach with her crotch right whe re his navel
was, and made her wiggle.
He no longer came home for lunch. He got picked up by the school’ s
combo e thanol-solarvan in the morning and returned by it at night. There
was a bright and cheerful school cafeteria with balanced meals, ethnic
choices – perogies, felafels – and a kosher option, and soy products for the
vegetarians. Jim my was so pleased to be able to eat lunch with  neither one
of his parents pr esent that he felt  light-headed. He even put on some weight,
and stopped being the skinniest kid in class. If there was any lunchtime leftover and nothing else going on , he could go to the library and  watch old
instructional CD -ROMs. Alex the parrot was his favourite, from  Classics in
Animal Behaviour Studies . He liked the part where Alex  invented a new
word – cork-nut , for almond – and, best of all, t he part where Alex got fed
up with the blue-triangle and y ellow-square exercise and said , I’m going
away now . No, Alex, you come back her e! Which is the blue tr iangle – no,
the  blue triangle?  But Alex was out the door . Five stars for Alex.
One day Jimmy was allowed to bring Killer to school, where she – it was
now of f icially a she – made a big hit. “Oh Jimmy , you are so lucky ,” said
W akulla Price, the first girl he’ d ever had a crush on. She stroked Killer ’ s
fur , brow n hand , pink nails, and Jimmy felt shivery , as if her fingers were
running over his own body .
 
 
Jimmy’ s father spent more and more time at his work, but talke d about it
less and  less. There were pigoons at NooSkins, just as at Or ga nInc Farms,
but these were smaller and w ere being used to develop skin-related
biotechnologies. The main idea was to find a method of replacing the older
epidermis with a fresh one, not a laser -thinned or dermabraded short-term
resurfacing but a genuine start-over skin that would be wrinkle- and
blemish-free. For that, it would be useful to grow a young, plum p skin cell
that would eat up the worn cells in the skins of those on w hom it was
planted and replace them with replicas of itself, like algae growing on a
pond.
The rew ards in the case of success would be enormous, Jimmy’ s father
explained, doing the straight-talking man-to-man act he had recently
adopted with Jimmy . What well-to-do and once-young, on ce-beautiful
woman or man, cranked up on hormonal supplements and shot full of
vitamins but hampered by the unfor giving mirror , wouldn’ t sell their house,
their gated retirement villa, their  kids, and their soul to get a second kick at
the sexu al can? NooSkins for O lds, said the snappy logo. Not that a totally
ef fective method  had been found  yet: the dozen or so ravaged ho pefuls who
had volunteered  themselves as subjects, paying no fees but si gning away
their rig hts to sue, had come o ut looking like the Mould Cr eature from
Outer Space – uneven in tone, greenish brown, and peeling in ragged strips.But there were o ther projects at NooSkins as well. One evening  Jimmy’ s
father came home late and a little drunk, with a bottle of champagne. Jimmy
took one look a t this and got himself out of the way . He’d hidden a tiny
mike be hind the picture of the seashore in the living room and another one
behind the kitchen wall clock – the one that gave a dif ferent irritating bird
call for every hour – so he could listen in on stuf f that was none of his
business. He’d put the mikes tog ether in the Neotechnology class at school;
he’d used standard components out of the mini-mikes for wireless computer
dictating, which, with a few adjustments, worked fine for eavesdropping.
“What’ s that for?” said the vo ice of Jimmy’ s mother . She m eant the
champagne.
“W e’ve done it,” said Jimmy’ s father ’ s voice. “I think a little celebration
is in order .” A scuf fle: maybe he’d tried to kiss her .
“Done what?”
Pop of the cham pagne cork. “Come on, it won’ t bite you.” A pause: he
must be pouring it out. Y es: the clink of glasses. “Here’ s to us.”
“Done what? I need to know what I’m drinking to.”
Another pause: Jimmy pictured his father swallowing, his Adam’ s apple
going up and down, bobbity-bobble. “It’ s the neuro-regeneration project.
W e now have ge nuine human neocortex tissue growing in a pigoon. Finally ,
after all those duds! Think of the possibilities, for stroke victims, and . . .”
“That’ s all we need,” said Jimm y’ s mother . “More people with t he brains
of pigs. Don’ t we have enough of those already?”
“Can’ t y ou be positive, just for  once? All this negative stuf f, this is no
good, that’ s no good , nothing’ s ever good enough, according to you!”
“Positive about what? That you ’ve thought up yet another way to rip of f
a bu nch of despe rate people?” said Jimmy’ s mother in that new slow , anger -
free voice.
“God, you’re cynical!”
“No, yo u are. Y ou and your sm art partners. Y our colleagues. It’ s wrong,
the whole or ganization is wrong, it’ s a moral cesspool and you know it.”
“W e can give people hope. Hope isn’ t ripping of f!”“At NooSkins’ prices it is. Y ou hype your wares and take all their money
and then  they run out of cash, a nd it’ s no more treatments for them. They
can rot as far as you and your pals are concerned. Don’ t you remember the
way we used to  talk, everything we wanted to do? Making life better for
people –  not just people with money . Y ou used to be so . . . you had ideals,
then.”
“Sure,” said Jimmy’ s father in a tired voice. “I’ve still got them. I just
can’ t af ford them.”
A pause. Jimmy’ s mother must’ve been mulling that over . “Be that as it
may ,” sh e said – a sign that she wasn’ t going to give in. “Be that as it may ,
there’ s research  and there’ s research. What you’re doing – this pig brain
thing. Y ou’re interfering with the building blocks of life. It’ s immoral. It’ s .
. . sacrilegious.”
Bang , o n the table. N ot his hand. The bottle? “I don’ t believe I’m hea ring
this! Wh o’ve yo u been listening to? Y ou’re an educated person, you did this
stuf f yourself! It’ s just proteins, you know that! There’ s nothing sacred
about cells and tissue, it’ s just . . .”
“I’m familiar with the theory .”
“Anyway it’ s been paying for your room and board, it’ s been putting the
food on your table. Y ou’re hardly in a position to take the high ground.”
“I k now ,” said J immy’ s mother ’ s voice. “Believe me, that is one thing I
really d o know . Why can’ t y ou get a job doing something honest?
Something basic.”
“Like what and like where? Y ou want me to dig ditches?”
“At least your conscience would be clean.”
“No, yours  would. Y ou’re the one with the  neurotic guilt. Why don’ t you
dig a few ditch es yourself, at l east it would get you of f your butt. Then
maybe you’d quit smoking – yo u’re a one-woman emphysema factory , plus
you’re single-handedly supporting the tobacco companies. Think about that
if yo u’re so ethi cal. They’re the folks who get six-year -olds hooked for life
by passing out free samples.”“I kn ow all that. ” A pause. “I smoke because I’m depressed. The tobacco
companies depre ss me, you  dep ress me, Jimmy depresses m e, he’ s turning
into a . . .”
“T ake some pills if you’re so fucking depressed!”
“There’ s no need for swearing.”
“I th ink maybe there is!” Jim my’ s father yelling wasn’ t a complete
novelty , but combined with the swearing it got Jimmy’ s full attention.
Maybe t here would be action, b roken glass. He felt afraid – that cold lump
in his stomach was back again –  but he also felt compelled to listen. If there
was going to be a catastrophe, some final collapse, he needed to witness it.
Nothing happened though, there was just the sound of footsteps going out
of the room. Which one of them? Whoever it was would now co me upstairs
and check to make sure Jimmy was asleep and hadn’ t heard. Then they
could tic k of f that item on the T errific Parenting checklist they  both carted
around i nside their heads. It was n’ t the bad stuf f they did that m ade Jimmy
so a ngry , it was  the good stuf f. The stuf f that was supposed to be good, or
good en ough fo r him. The stuf f they patted themselves on th e backs for .
They knew nothing about him , what he liked, what he hated, what he
longed f or . They  thought he was  only what they could see. A nic e boy but a
bit of a g oof, a bit of a show-of f . Not the brightest star in the universe, not a
numbers person , but you couldn ’ t have everything you wanted and at least
he wasn’ t a total washout. At least he wasn’ t a drunk or an addict like a lot
of boys his age, so touch wood. He’d actually heard his dad say that: touch
wood , a s if Jimmy was bound to fuck  up, wander of f the tracks, but he just
hadn’ t g ot aroun d to it yet. About the dif ferent, secret person living inside
him they knew nothing at all.
He turne d of f his computer and unplugged the earphones and doused the
lights an d got into bed, quietly and also carefully , because Killer was in
there alr eady . She was down at the bottom, she liked it there; sh e’d taken to
licking his feet to get the salt of f. It was ticklish; head under the covers, he
shook with silent laughter .
 
 H a m m e r
Several years passed. They mus t have passed, thinks Snowman: he can’ t
actually remember much about them except that his voice crac ked and he
began to  sprout body hair . Not a big thrill at the time except that it would
have been worse not to. He got some muscles too. He started having sexy
dreams and suf fering from lass itude. He thought about girls a lot in the
abstract, as it we re – girls witho ut heads – and about W akulla Price with her
head on, though she wouldn’ t hang out with him. Did he have zits, was that
it? H e c an’ t remember having any; though, as he recalls, the faces of his
rivals were covered in them.
Cork-nut , he’ d sa y to anyone who pissed him of f. Anyone who wasn’ t a
girl. No one but him and Alex the parrot knew exactly what cork -nut meant,
so i t was prett y demolishing. It became a fad, among the kids at the
HelthW yzer Compound, so Jimmy was considered medium-cool. Hey , cork-
nut!
His secret best friend was Killer . Pathetic, that the only person he could
really ta lk to was a rakunk. He a voided his parents as much as possible. His
dad was a cor k-nut and his mother was a drone. He was no longer
frightened by their negative ele ctrical field, he simply found th em tedious,
or so he told himself.
At school, he enacted a major piece of treachery against them. He’d draw
eyes on each of his index-finger knuckles and tuck his thumbs inside his
fists. Then, by moving the thumbs up and down to show the mouths
opening and closing, he could make these two hand-puppets ar gue together .
His right hand was Evil Dad, his left hand was Righteous Mom . Evil Dad
blustered and theorized and dished out pompous bullshit, Righteous Mom
complained and accused. In Righteous Mom’ s cosmology , Evil Dad was the
sole source of hemorrhoids, kleptomania, global conflict, bad breath,
tectonic-plate fault lines, and clogged drains, as well as every migraine
headache and menstrual cramp  Righteous Mom had ever suf fered. This
lunchroom show  of his was a hit; a crowd would collect, wi th requests.
Jimmy , Jimmy – do Evil Dad!  The other kids had lots of variations and
routines to suggest, filched fro m the private lives of their own parentalunits. Some of them tried drawing eyes on their own knuckles, but they
weren’ t as good at the dialogue.
Jimmy felt guilty sometimes, afterwards, when he’d gone too far . He
shouldn’ t have had Righteous Mom weeping in the kitchen because her
ovaries had burst; he shouldn’ t have done that sex scene with the Monday
Special Fish Finger , 20% Real Fish – Evil Dad falling upon it and tearing it
apart with lust because Right eous Mom was sulking inside an empty
T winkies packa ge and wouldn’ t come out. Those skits were undignified,
though t hat alon e wouldn’ t have stopped him. They were also too close to
an uncomfortab le truth Jimmy didn’ t want to examine. But the other kids
egged him on, and he couldn’ t resist the applause.
“W as that out o f line, Killer?” he would ask. “W as that too vile?” V ile
was a word he’d recently discovered: Righteous Mom was us ing it a lot
these days.
Killer would lick his nose. She always for gave him.
 
 
One day Jimmy came home fr om school and there was a note on the
kitchen table. It was from his mother . He knew as soon as he saw the
writing on the outside – For Jimmy , underlined twice in black – what sort of
note it would be.
Dear Jimmy , it said . Blah blah blah, suffer ed with conscience long
enough, blah blah, no longer participate in a lifestyle that is not only
meaningless in itself but blah blah.  She knew that when Jimmy w as old
enough to consider the implications of blah blah , h e would agre e with her
and understand.  She would be in contact with him later , if there was any
possibility . Blah blah  search will be conducted, inev itably; thus necessary
to g o into hidin g. A decision not taken without much soul-se arching and
thought and anguish, but blah . She would always love him very much.
 
 
Maybe she had loved Jimmy , thinks Snowman. In her own manner .
Though he hadn’ t believed it at the time. Maybe, on the other hand, shehadn’ t loved him. She must have had some sort of positive emotion about
him though. W asn’ t there supposed to be a maternal bond?
P .S. , she ’d s aid. I have taken Killer with me to liberate her , as I know she
will be happier living a wild, fr ee life in the for est.
Jimmy hadn’ t believed that either . He was enraged by it. How dare she?
Killer w as his! And Killer was a tame animal, she’d be helpless on her own,
she wouldn’ t know how to fend for herself, everything hungry would tear
her into furry black and white pieces. But Jimmy’ s mother and her ilk must
have been right, thinks Snowman, and Killer and the other liberated rakunks
must have been able to cope just fine, or how else to account for the
annoyingly lar ge population of them now infesting this neck of the woods?
 
 
Jimmy h ad mou rned for weeks. No, for months. Which one of them was
he mourning the most? His mother , or an altered skunk?
His mot her had left another note . Not a note – a wordless message. She’d
trashed Jimmy’ s father ’ s home computer , and not only the contents: she’d
taken th e hammer to it. Actually she’d employed just about every single
tool in Jimmy’ s father ’ s neatly arranged and seldom-used Mr . Home
Handyman tool box, but the hammer seemed to have been her m ain weapon
of choic e. She’d  done her own computer too, if anything more  thoroughly .
Thus ne ither Jimmy’ s father nor the CorpSeCorps men who w ere soon all
over the place h ad any idea of what coded messages she might have been
sending, what information she m ay or may not have downloaded and taken
out with her .
As for how she’d got through the checkpoints and the gates, she’d said
she w as going for a root canal procedure, to a dentist in one of the Modules.
She’d h ad the paperwork, all th e necessary clearances, and the backstory
was real: the r oot canal specialist at the HelthW yzer dental clinic had
toppled over with a heart attack and his replacement hadn’ t arrived, so they
were contracting  out. She’d even made a genuine appointment with the
Module dentist, who’d billed Jimmy’ s dad for the time when she hadn’ t
shown up. (Jimmy’ s dad refused to pay , because it wasn’ t his missed
appointment; he  and the dentist had a shouting match about it later , over thephone.) She hadn’ t packed any luggage, she’d been smarter than  that. She’d
booked a CorpSeCorps man as protection in the taxi ride from the sealed
bullet-train station through the short stretch of pleebland that had to be
crossed before reaching the perimeter wall of the Module, wh ich was the
usual thing to do. No one questioned her , she was a familiar si ght and she
had the requisiti on and the pass  and everything. No one at the Compound
gate had  looked inside her mouth, though there wouldn’ t have been much to
see: nerve pain wouldn’ t have shown.
The Cor pSeCorps man must have been in cahoots with her , or else he’d
been done away with; in any c ase he didn’ t come back and he was never
found. O r so it was said. That really stirred things up. It mean t there had
been oth ers invo lved. But what others, and what were their goals? It was
ur gent that these matters be clarified, said the Corps guys who grilled
Jimmy . Had Jimmy’ s mother e ver said anything to him, the  Corpsmen
asked?
Like, what did they mean by anything ? said Jimmy . There were the
conversations he ’d overheard on his mini-mikes, but he didn’ t want to talk
about th ose. The re were the thin gs his mother rambled on about sometimes,
about how everything was being ruined and would never be the same again,
like the beach house her family had owned when she was little, the one that
got w ashed away with the rest o f the beaches and quite a few of  the eastern
coastal c ities wh en the sea-level rose so quickly , and then there was that
huge tidal wave, from the Ca nary Islands volcano. (They’d taken it in
school, in the Geolonomics unit. Jimmy had found the video simulation
pretty e xciting.) And she used to snivel about her grandfather ’ s Florida
grapefruit orchard that had dried up like a giant raisin when th e rains had
stopped coming, the same year Lake Okeechobee had shrunk to a reeking
mud puddle and the Ever glades had burned for three weeks straight.
But everyone’ s parents moaned on about stuf f like that. Remember when
you could drive anywher e? Remember when everyone lived in the
pleeblands? Rem ember when you could fly anywher e in the wo rld, without
fear? Remember hambur ger chains, always r eal beef, r emember hot-dog
stands? Rememb er befor e New Y ork was  New New Y or k? Rem ember when
voting matter ed?  It was all standard lunchtime hand-puppet stuf f. Oh it wasall so gr eat once. Boohoo. Now I’m going into the T winkies package. No
sex tonight!
His mother was just a mother , Jimmy told the CorpSeCorps man. She did
what mothers did. She smoked a lot.
“She belong to any , like, or gan izations? Any strange folk come to the
house? She spend a lot of time on the cellphone?”
“Anything you could help us out with, we’d appreciate it, son,” said the
other Corpsman. It was the son  that clinched it. Jimmy said he didn’ t think
so.
Jimmy’ s mother  had left some new clothes for him, in the sizes she said
he woul d soon grow into. They were sucky , like the clothes she always
bought. Also they were too small. He put them away in a drawer .
 
 
His father was rattled, you could  tell; he was scared. His wife had broken
every rule in the book, she must’ve had a whole other life and he’d had no
idea. That sort of thing reflected  badly on a man. He said he hadn’ t kept any
crucial informat ion on the home computer she’d wrecked, but of course he
would have said that, and there was no way of proving otherwise. Then
he’d bee n debrie fed, elsewhere,  for quite a long time. Maybe h e was being
tortured, as in old movies or on some of the nastier W eb sites, with
electrodes and truncheons and red-hot nails, and Jimmy worried about that
and felt bad. Why hadn’ t he seen it all coming and headed it of f, instead of
playing at mean ventriloquism?
T wo ca st-iron CorpSeCorps women had stayed in the house while
Jimmy’ s father was away , loo king after Jimmy , or so it was called. A
smiling one and a flat-faced on e. They made a lot of phone ca lls on their
ether ce lls; they went through the photo albums and Jimmy’ s mother ’ s
closets, and tried to get Jimmy to talk. She look s r eally  pr etty . Y ou think  she
had a boyfriend? Did she go to the pleeblands much?  Why would she go
there, sa id Jimm y , and they sai d some people liked to. Why , said Jimmy
again, and the flat-faced one said some people were twisted, and the smiling
one laughed and blushed, and  said you could get things out there you
couldn’ t get in here. What sorts of things, Jimmy wanted to ask, but hedidn’ t because the answer mig ht entangle him in more ques tions, about
what his mother liked or might w ant to get. He’d done all of his  betrayal of
her in the HelthW yzer High lunchroom, he wasn’ t going to do any more.
The two  of them cooked terri ble leathery omelettes in an attempt to
throw Jimmy of f guard by feeding him. After that didn’ t work, they
microwaved fro zen dinners and ordered in pizza. So, your  mother go to the
mall a lot? Did she go dancing? I bet she did.  Ji mmy wanted to slug them.
If he’d been a girl he could have burst into tears and got them to feel sorry
for him, and shut them up that way .
 
 
After Jimmy’ s dad came back f rom wherever he’d been taken, he’d had
counselling. He looked like he needed it, his face was green a nd his eyes
were red and puf fy . Jimmy had counselling too, but it was a waste of time.
Y ou must be unhappy that your mother ’ s gone.
Y eah, right.
Y ou mustn’ t blame yourself, son. It’ s not your fault she left.
How do you mean?
It’ s okay , you can expr ess your emotions.
Which ones would you like me to expr ess?
No need to be hostile, Jimmy , I know how you feel.
So, if you alr eady know how I feel, why ar e you asking me , and so on.
 
 
Jimmy’ s dad told Jimmy that they two fellows would just have to for ge
ahead the best w ay they could. So they did for ge ahead. They for ged and
they for g ed, they poured out the ir own orange juice in the morning and put
the dishes in the dishwasher when they remembered, and after a few weeks
of for ging Jimmy’ s dad lost his greenish tint and started playing golf again.
Underneath you could tell he w asn’ t feeling too shabby , now that the
worst was over . He began wh istling while he shaved. He shaved more.
After a decent interval Ramona  moved in. Life took on a dif fer ent pattern,which involved bouts of giggly , growly sex going on behind doors that were
closed b ut not soundproof, whil e Jimmy turned his music up high and tried
not to listen. He could have put a bug in their room, taken in the whole
show , but he had a strong aversion to that. T ruth to tell, he found it
embarrassing. O nce there was a dif ficult encounter in the u pstairs hall,
Jimmy’ s father in a bath towel, ears standing out from the sides of his head,
jowls flu shed w ith the ener gy of his latest erotic tussle, Jimmy red with
shame a nd pretending not to not ice. The two hormone-sodden love bunnies
might have had the decency t o do it in the garage, instead of rubbing
Jimmy’ s nose in it all the time.  They made him feel invisible. Not that he
wanted to feel anything else.
 
 
How lon g had they been going at it? Snowman wonders now . Had the
two of them bee n having it of f behind the pigoon pens in their biosuits and
germ-filtering fa ce masks? He doesn’ t think so: his father was a nerd, not a
shit. Of course you could be both: a nerdy shit, a shitty nerd. B ut his father
(or so he believ es) was too awkward and bad at lying to ha ve become
involved in full-fledged treachery and betrayal without Jimmy’ s mother
noticing.
Though maybe she had noticed.  Maybe that was why she’d fled, or part
of t he reason. Y ou don’ t take a hammer – not to mention an electric
screwdriver and  a pipe wrench – to a guy’ s computer without being quite
angry .
Not that she ha dn’ t been angry in general: her anger had g one way
beyond any one motive.
The more Snowman thinks a bout it, the more he’ s convin ced that
Ramona and his father had ref rained. They’d waited till Jimmy’ s mother
had buggered of f in a splatter of pixels before toppling into each other ’ s
arms. O therwise they wouldn’ t have done so much earnest, blameless
gazing a t each other in André’ s Bistro at Or ganInc. If they’d been having a
thing alr eady they’d have been brusque and businesslike in public, they’d
have avoided each other if anything; they’d have had quick and dirty trysts
in gr ungy corners, weltering aro und in their own popped buttons and stuckzippers on the of fice carpet, chewing each other ’ s ears in car parks. They
wouldn’ t have bothered with those antiseptic lunches, with his father staring
at th e tabletop while Ramona liq uefied the raw carrots. They wo uldn’ t have
salivated on each other over the greenery and pork pies while u sing young
Jimmy as a human shield.
Not that Snowman passes judgment. He knows how these things go, or
used to go. H e’ s a grown-up now , with much worse things on his
conscience. So who is he to blame them?
(He blames them.)
 
 
Ramona sat Jimmy down and gazed at him with her big blac k-fringed
smudgy sincere eyes, and told h im that she knew this was very hard on him
and it was a trauma for them all, it was hard on her too, though maybe he,
you kno w , migh t not think so, and she was aware that she couldn’ t replace
his r eal mother but she hoped, maybe they could be buddies? J immy said,
Sur e, why not , b ecaus e apart from her conne ction with his father he liked
her well enough and wanted to please her .
She did try . She laughed at his jokes, a little late sometimes – sh e was not
a w ord person, h e reminded himself – and sometimes when Jimmy’ s father
was awa y she microwaved dinner for just herself and Jimmy; lasagna and
Caesar salad were her staples. Sometimes she would watch DVD movies
with him, sitting beside him on the couch, making them a bowl of popcorn
first, pouring melted butter sub stitute onto it, dipping into it with greasy
fingers s he’d lick during the sca ry parts while Jimmy tried not to look at her
breasts. She asked him if there was anything he wanted to ask  her about,
like, you  know . Her and his dad, and what had happened to th e marriage.
He said there wasn’ t.
In s ecret, in the night, he yearned for Killer . Also – in some corner of
himself he could not quite acknowledge – for his real, strange, insuf ficient,
miserable mothe r . Where had sh e gone, what danger was she in? That she
was in danger of  some sort was a given. They’d be looking for h er , he knew
that, and if he were her he wouldn’ t want to be found.But she’d said s he would contact him, so why wasn’ t she doing it? After
a while he did get a couple of postcards, with stamps from En gland, then
Ar gentina. They were signed Aunt Monica , but he knew they were from her .
Hope you’r e well , w as all they sa id. She must have known they’d be read
by abou t a hundred snoops befo re ever getting to Jimmy , and that was right,
because along came the Corpsm en after each one, asking who Aunt Monica
was. Jim my said  he didn’ t know . He didn’ t think his mother w as in any of
the countries the stamps were from, because she was way smarter than that.
She must have got other people to mail them for her .
Didn’ t she trust him? Evidently  not. He felt he’d disappointed her , he’d
failed her in some crucial way . He’d never understood what was required of
him. If only he could have one more chance to make her happy .
 
 
“I a m not my childhood,” Snowman says out loud. He ha tes these
replays. He can’ t turn them of f,  he can’ t change the subject, he can’ t leave
the room. What he needs is mo re inner discipline, or a mystic  syllable he
could re peat ov er and over to tune himself out. What were those things
called? Mantras. They’d had that in grade school. Religion of the W eek. All
right, cl ass, now  quiet as mice, that means you, Jimmy . T oday we’r e going
to pr etend we li ve in India, and  we’r e going to do a mantra. W on’ t that be
fun? No w let’ s all choose a wor d , a differ ent wor d, so we can ea ch have our
own special mantra.
“Hang o n to the words,” he tells himself. The odd words, the o ld words,
the rare ones. V alance . Norn . Ser endipity . Pibr och . Lubricious . When
they’re gone out of his head, these words, they’ll be gone, e verywhere,
forever . As if they had never been.
 
 C r a k e
A few months before Jimmy’ s  mother vanished, Crake appeared. The
two things happened in the sam e year . What was the connec tion? There
wasn’ t one, except that the two of them seemed to get on w ell together .
Crake w as among the scant handful of Jimmy’ s friends that his mother
liked. Mostly she’d found his male pals juvenile, his female ones airheaded
or sluttish. She’d never used those words but you could tell.
Crake th ough, C rake was dif ferent. More like an adult, she’d said; in fact,
more ad ult than  a lot of adults. Y ou could have an objective c onversation
with him, a con versation in which events and hypotheses were followed
through to their logical conclusions. Not that Jimmy ever witnes sed the two
of th em having such a conversation, but they must have done or else she
wouldn’ t have said that. W hen and how did these log ical, adult
conversations take place? He’ s often wondered.
“Y our friend is intellectually honourable,” Jimmy’ s mother would say .
“He doe sn’ t lie to himself.” Then she’d gaze at Jimmy with tha t blue-eyed,
wounded-by-him look he knew so well. If only he  could be like that –
intellectually ho nourable. Another baf fling item on the cryptic report card
his m other toted around in some mental pocket, the report card o n which he
was always just barely passin g. Jimmy would do better at intellectual
honourableness if only he would try har der .  Plus, if he had any fucking
clues about what the fuck it meant.
“I do n’ t need supper ,” he’d tell her yet again. “I’ll just grab a snack.” If
she wan ted to do that wounded thing she could do it for the kitchen clock.
He’d fix ed it so the robin said hoot  and the owl sai d caw caw . Let her be
disappointed with them for a change.
He had his doubts about Crake’ s honourableness, intellectual or
otherwise. He knew a bit more about Crake than his mother did.
 
 
When Jimmy’ s mother took of f like that, after the rampage with the
hammer , Crake didn’ t say much. He didn’ t seem surprised or shocked. All
he said was that  some people ne eded to change, and to change they neededto be elsewhere. He said a person could be in your life and then not in it any
more. He said Jimmy should r ead up on the Stoics. That last part was
mildly aggravati ng: Crake could be a little too instructive sometimes, and a
little too  free with the should s. But Jimmy appreciated his calmness and
lack of nosiness.
Of course Crake wasn’ t Crake yet, at that time: his name was Glenn.
Why did it have two n’ s instead of the usual spelling? “M y dad liked
music,” was Crake’ s explanatio n, once Jimmy got around to asking him
about it, which had taken a while. “He named me after a dead pianist, some
boy genius with two n’ s.”
“So did he make you take music lessons?”
“No,” said Crake. “He never made me do much of anything.”
“Then what was the point?
“Of what?”
“Of your name. The two n’ s.”
“Jimmy , Jimmy ,” said Crake. “Not everything has a point.”
Snowman has trouble thinking  of Crake as Glenn, so thoroughly has
Crake’ s later persona blotted o ut his earlier one. The Crake side of him
must have been there from the b eginning, thinks Snowman: ther e was never
any real Glenn, Glenn  w as only a disg uise. So in Sno wman’ s reruns of the
story , Crake is never Glenn, and  never Glenn-alias-Crake  or Crake/Glenn ,
or Glenn, later Crake . He is always just Crake, pure and simple.
Anyway Crake  saves time, thinks Snowman. Why hyphenate, why
parenthesize, unless absolutely necessary?
 
 
Crake tu rned up at HelthW yzer High in September or Octobe r , one of
those m onths th at used to be called autumn . I t was a brigh t warm sunny
day , oth erwise undistinguished. He was a transfer , the resu lt of some
headhunt involving a parental unit: these were frequent among the
Compounds. Kid s came and went, desks filled and emptied, frie ndship was
always contingent.Jimmy wasn’ t paying much atte ntion when Crake was introduced to the
class by  Melons Riley , their H oodroom and Ultratexts teacher . Her name
wasn’ t Melons – that was a nickname used among the boys in the class –
but Snowman can’ t remember h er real name. She shouldn’ t have  bent down
so close ly over his Read-A-Screen, her lar ge round breasts almost touching
his shou lder . She shouldn’ t have worn her NooSkins T -shirt tucked so
tightly into her zipleg shorts: it was too distracting. So that when Melons
announced that Jimmy would be showing their new classmate Glenn around
the scho ol, there  was a pause while Jimmy scrambled to decip her what it
was she’d just said.
“Jimmy , I made a request,” said Melons.
“Sure, anything, ” said Jimmy , ro lling his eyes and leering, but not taking
it too far . Ther e was some class laughter; even Ms. Riley gave him a
remote, unwilling smile. He could usually get round her with his boyish-
charm act. He li ked to imagine that if he hadn’ t been a minor , and she his
teacher and subject to abuse ch ar ges, she’d have been gnawing her way
through his bedroom walls to sink her avid fingers into his youthful flesh.
Jimmy had been full of him self back then, thinks Snowman with
indulgence and a little envy . He’d been unhappy too, of course. It went
without saying, his unhappiness. He’d put a lot of ener gy into it.
 
 
When Jimmy got around to focusing on Crake, he wasn’ t too cheered.
Crake was taller than Jimmy , about two inches; thinner too. Straight brown-
black ha ir , tann ed skin, green e yes, a half-smile, a cool gaze. His clothes
were dark in tone, devoid of logos and visuals and written commentary – a
no-name look. He was possibly older than the rest of them, or trying to act
it. Ji mmy wondered what kinds  of sports he played. Not football, nothing
too brawny . Not tall enough for basketball. He didn’ t strike Jimmy as a
team player , or one who wou ld stupidly court injury . T ennis, maybe.
(Jimmy himself played tennis.)
At lu nch hour Ji mmy collected Crake and the two of them grab bed some
food – Crake put down two g iant soy-sausage dogs and a big slab of
coconut-style lay er cake, so may be he was trying to bulk up – and then theytrudged up and down the halls and in and out of the classroom s and labs,
with Jimmy giving the running  commentary . Her e’ s the gym, her e’ s the
library , those ar e the r eaders, you have to sign up for them befor e noon, in
ther e’ s th e girls’  shower r oom, t her e’ s supposed to be a hole drilled thr ough
the wall but I’v e never found i t. If you want to smoke dope don’ t use the
can, the y’ve got it bugged; ther e ’ s a micr olens for Security in that air vent,
don’ t star e at it or they’ll know you know .
Crake lo oked at everything, said nothing. He volunteered no inf ormation
about hi mself. T he only comment he made was that the Chemlab was a
dump.
W ell stuf f it, Jimmy thought. I f he wants to be an asshole i t’ s a free
country . Millions before him have made the same life choi ce. He was
annoyed with himself for jabbe ring and capering, while Crake gave him
brief, indif ferent glances, and that one-sided demi-smile. Nevertheless there
was something  about Crake. That kind of cool slouchiness always
impressed Jimmy , coming from  another guy: it was the sense of ener gies
being held back, held in reserve for something more important than present
company .
Jimmy f ound hi mself wishing to make a dent in Crake, get a reaction; it
was one of his weaknesses, to care what other people thought  of him. So
after school he asked Crake if he’d like to go to one of the malls, hang out,
see the sights, m aybe there would be some girls there, and Crake said why
not. Th ere wasn’ t much else to do after school in the HelthW yzer
Compound, or in any of the Compounds, not for kids their age, not in any
sort of group way . It wasn’ t like the pleeblands. There, it was ru moured, the
kids ran  in packs, in hordes. They’d wait until some parent was away , then
get r ight down t o business – the y’d swarm the place, waste them selves with
loud music and toking and boozing, fuck everything including the family
cat, trash the fur niture, shoot up, overdose. Glamorous, thought Jimmy . But
in the Compounds the lid was screwed down tight. Night patrols, curfews
for g rowing minds, snif fer dogs after hard drugs. Once, they’d loosened up,
let in a real band – The Pleebland Dirtballs, it had been – but there’d been a
quasi-riot, so no repeats. No nee d to apologize to Crake, though. He was a
Compound brat himself, he’d know the score.Jimmy w as hop ing he might c atch a glimpse of W akulla Pric e, at the
mall; he was sti ll sort of in love with her , but after the I-value- you-as-my-
friend sp eech sh e’d ruined him with, he’d tried one girl and th en another ,
ending up – cu rrently – with blonde L yndaLee. L yndaLee was on the
rowing team and had muscul ar thighs and impressive pecs, and had
smuggled him up to her bedroom on more than one occasion. She had a foul
mouth a nd more  experience than Jimmy , and every time he went with her
he felt as if he’d been sucked into a Pachinko machine, all flashing lights
and random tumbling and cascades of ball bearings. He did n’ t like her
much, but he needed to keep up with her , make sure he was still on her list.
Maybe h e could get Crake into the queue – do him a favour , build up some
gratitude equity . He wondered what kind of girls Crake prefe rred. So far
there’d been zero signals.
At th e m all there was no W akulla to be seen, and no L ynda-Lee. Jimmy
tried calling L yndaLee, but her cellphone was of f. So Jimmy  and Crake
played a  few games of Three-Dimensional W aco in the arcade  and had a
couple of SoyOBoybur gers – no beef that month, said the chalkboard menu
– and an iced H appicuppuchino, and half a Joltbar each to t op up their
ener gy a nd mainline a few steroids. Then they ambled down the enclosed
hallway with its fountains and plastic ferns, through the warm -bathwater
music th ey always played in t here. Crake was not exactly voluble, and
Jimmy was about to say he had to go do his homework, whe n up ahead
there was a noteworthy sight: it was Melons Riley with a man, heading
towards one of the adults-only dance clubs. She’d changed out of her school
clothes a nd had on a loose red j acket over a tight black dress, and the man
had his arm around her waist, inside the jacket.
Jimmy nudged Crake. “Y ou think he’ s got his hand on her ass?” he said.
“That’ s a geometrical problem,” said Crake. “Y ou’d have to work it out.”
“What?” said Jimmy . Then, “How?”
“Use yo ur neurons,” said Crake. “Step one: calculate length of man’ s
arm, using single visible arm as  arm standard. Assumption: that both arms
are approximately the same length. Step two: calculate angle of bend at
elbow . Step three: calculate curv ature of ass. Approximation of this may benecessary , in absence of verifiable numbers. Step four: calculate size of
hand, using visible hand, as above.”
“I’m not a numbers person,” sa id Jimmy , laughing, but Crake kept on:
“All potential hand positions m ust now be considered. W aist, ruled out.
Upper ri ght chee k, ruled out. Lo wer right cheek or upper thigh would seem
by d eduction to be the most l ikely . Hand between both upper thighs a
possibility , but this position would impede walking on the part of the
subject, and no limping or stumbling is detectable.” He was doing a pretty
good im itation of their Chemlab teacher – the use-your -neurons line, and
that clipped, stif f delivery , sort of like a bark. More than pretty good, good.
Already Jimmy  liked Crake better . They might have something in
common after all, at least the guy had a sense of humour . But he was also a
little threatened. He himself was a good imitator , he could do just about all
the teachers. What if Crake turned out to be better at it? He could feel it
within himself to hate Crake, as well as liking him.
But in the days that followed, Crake gave no public performances.
 
 
Crake had had a thing about him even then, thinks Snowman. N ot that he
was pop ular , ex actly , but people felt flattered by his regard. Not just the
kids, the  teachers too. He’d look at them as if he was listening, as if what
they we re talkin g about was wo rthy of his full attention, thoug h he would
never sa y so exactly . He generated awe – not an overwhelming amount of
it, b ut enough. He exuded poten tial, but potential for what? No body knew ,
and so people were wary of him. All of this in his dark laconic clothing.
 
 B r a i n f r i z z
W akulla Price had been Jimmy’ s lab partner in Nanotech Biochem, but
her father was headhunted by a Compound on the other side of the
continent, and she’d taken the high-speed sealed bullet train an d was never
seen again. After she’d gone Jimmy moped for a week, and not even
L yndaLee’ s dirty-mouthed convulsions could console him.
W akulla’ s vacan t place at the lab table was filled by Crake, who was
moved u p from  his solitary late comer ’ s position at the back o f the room.
Crake was very smart – even in the world of HelthW yzer High, with its
overstock of borderline geniuses  and polymaths, he had no trouble floating
at the top of the  list. He turned out to be excellent at Nanotech Biochem,
and toge ther he and Jimmy worked on their single-molecular -layer splicing
project, managing to produce the required purple nematode – using the
colour -coder fro m a primitive seaweed – before schedule, and with no
alarming variations.
Jimmy a nd Crake took to hangi ng out together at lunch hour , and then –
not every day , they weren’ t ga y or anything, but at least twice a week –
after sch ool. At  first they’d pla y tennis, on the clay court behind Crake’ s
place, but Crake combined met hod with lateral thinking and ha ted to lose,
and Jimm y was impetuous and lacked finesse, so that wasn’ t too productive
and they dropped it. Or , under pretence of doing their homework, which
sometimes they really would do, they would shut themselves up in Crake’ s
room, w here th ey would play computer chess or Three-Dimensionals, or
Kwiktime Osam a, tossing to see who got Infidels. Crake had two
computers, so they could sit with their backs to each other , one at each.
“Why don’ t we use a real set?”  Jimmy asked one day when they were
doing so me che ss. “The old kind. W ith plastic men.” It did seem weird to
have th e two of them in the same room, back to back, playing on
computers.
“Why?” said Crake. “Anyway , this is  a real set.”
“No it’ s not.”
“Okay , granted, but neither is plastic men.”
“What?”“The real set is in your head.”
“Bogus!” Jimmy  yelled. It was a good word, he’d got it of f an old DVD;
they’d taken to using it to tear each other down for being pom pous. “W ay
too bogus!”
Crake laughed.
 
 
Crake would get fixated on a ga me, and would want to play it and play it
and perfect his attack until he was sure he could win, nine times out of ten
anyway . For a whole month they’d had to play Barbarian Stomp (See If Y ou
Can Change History!). One side had the cities and the riches and the other
side had the hor des, and – usually but not always – the most viciousness.
Either th e barba rians stomped the cities or else they got stomped, but you
had to start out with the historical disposition of ener gies and go on from
there. Rome versus the V isigoths, Ancient Egypt versus the Hyksos, Aztecs
versus th e Span iards. That was a cute one, because it was the Aztecs who
represented civilization, while the Spaniards were the barbarian hordes. Y ou
could cu stomize the game as long as you used real societies and tribes, and
for a while Crake and Jimmy vied with each other to see who could come
up with the most obscure pairing.
“Petchenegs versus Byzantium,” said Jimmy , one memorable day .
“Who the fuck are the Petchenegs? Y ou made that up,” said Crake.
But Jimmy had found it in the Encyclopedia Britannica , 1957 edition,
which was stored on CD-ROM – for some for gotten reason – in the school
library . He had chapter and verse. “‘Matthew of Edessa referred to them as
wicked blood-dr inking beasts,’” he was able to say with autho rity . “‘They
were totally ruthless and had n o redeeming features.’” So they tossed for
sides, a nd Jimmy got Petchenegs, and won. The Byzantines were
slaughtered, bec ause that was w hat Petchenegs did, Jimmy explained. They
always slaughtered everyone im mediately . Or they slaughtered the men, at
least. Then they slaughtered the women after a while.
Crake took the loss of all of his players badly , and sulked a lit tle. After
that he’d  switched his loyalty to Blood and Roses. It was more cosmic, saidCrake: the field of battle was lar ger , both in time and space.
Blood and Roses was a trading game, along the lines of Monopoly . The
Blood side played with human  atrocities for the counters, atrocities on a
lar ge scale: individual rapes and murders didn’ t count, there had to have
been a lar ge number of people w iped out. Massacres, genocides , that sort of
thing. The Roses side played with human achievements. Artworks,
scientific breakthroughs, stellar works of architecture, helpful  inventions.
Monuments to the soul’ s magnificence , they were called in the game. T here
were sidebar buttons, so that if you didn’ t know what Crime and
Punishment  wa s, or the Theory of Relativity , or the T rail of T ears, or
Madame Bovary , or the H undred Y ears’ W ar , or  The Flight into Egypt , you
could double-cl ick and get an illustrated rundown, in two choices: R for
children, PON for Profanity , Obscenity , and Nudity . That was the thing
about history , said Crake: it had lots of all three.
Y ou rolled the v irtual dice and e ither a Rose or a Blood item would pop
up. If it was a Blood item, the Rose player had a chance to stop the atrocity
from hap pening, but he had to put up a Rose item in exchange. The atrocity
would then vanish from histor y , or at least the history recorded on the
screen. T he Blo od player could acquire a Rose item, but only by handing
over an atrocity , thus leaving h imself with less ammunition and the Rose
player w ith more. If he was a sk ilful player he could attack the Rose side by
means o f the atrocities in his po ssession, loot the human achievement, and
transfer it to his  side of the board. The player who managed t o retain the
most hu man achievements by T ime’ s Up was the winner . W ith  points of f,
naturally , for achievements dest royed through his own error an d folly and
cretinous play .
The exc hange rates – one Mona Lisa  equalled Ber gen-Belsen, one
Armenian genocide equalled the Ninth Symphony  plus three Great Pyramids
– we re suggested, but there was room for haggling. T o do this you needed
to k now the numbers – the total number of corpses for the atrocities, the
latest open-market price for the artworks; or , if the artworks had been
stolen, the amount paid out by the insurance policy . It was a wicked game.
 
 “Homer ,” says Snowman, making his way through the dripping-wet
vegetation. “ The Divine Comedy . Greek statuary . Aqueducts. Paradise Lost .
Mozart’ s music. Shakespeare, complete works. The Brontës. T olstoy . The
Pearl Mosque. Chartres Cathedral. Bach. Rembrandt. V e rdi. Joyce.
Penicillin. Keats. T urner . Heart transplants. Polio vaccine. Berlioz.
Baudelaire. Bartok. Y eats. W oolf.”
There must have been more. There were more.
The sack  of T r oy , say s a voice in his ear . The des truction of Carthage.
The V iki ngs. The Crusades. Ghenghis Khan. Attila the Hun. The massacr e
of th e C athars. The witch burnings. The destruction of the Aztec. Ditto the
Maya. Ditto the Inca. The Inqu isition. Vlad the Impaler . The massacr e of
the Huguenots. Cr omwell in Ir eland. The Fr ench Revolution. The
Napoleonic W ars. The Irish Famine. Slavery in the American South. King
Leopold in the Congo. The Russian Revolution. Stalin. Hitler . Hir oshima.
Mao. Pol Pot. Idi Amin. Sri Lanka. East T imor . Saddam Hussein.
“Stop it,” says Snowman.
Sorry , honey . Only trying to help.
 
 
That was the trouble with Blood and Roses: it was easier to remember the
Blood stuf f. The other trouble was that the Blood player usually won, but
winning meant you inherited a wasteland. This was the point of the game,
said Cra ke, whe n Jimmy complained. Jimmy said if that was the point, it
was pret ty point less. He didn’ t want to tell Crake that he was having some
severe nightmar es: the one where the Parthenon was decorated with cut-of f
heads was, for some reason, the worst.
By u nspoken consent they’d given up on Blood and Roses, which was
fine with Crake because he was into something new – Extinctathon, an
interactive biofreak masterlore game he’d found on the W eb.
EXTINCT A THON, Monitor ed by MaddAddam. Adam named the living
animals, MaddAddam names the  dead ones. Do you want to play?  That was
what came up w hen you logged on. Y ou then had to click Y es, enter your
codename, and pick one of t he two chat rooms – Kingdo m Animal,
Kingdom V egetable. Then some challenger would come on-line, using hisown codename – Komodo, Rhino, Manatee, Hippocampus Ramulosus –
and propose a contest. Begins with, number of legs, what is it?  The it  would
be some bioform that had kakked out within the past fifty years – no T -Rex,
no r oc, no dodo , and points of f for getting the time frame wrong. Then
you’d narrow it down, Phylum C lass Order Family Genus Species, then the
habitat a nd when last seen, an d what had snuf fed it. (Pollution, habitat
destruction, cred ulous morons who thought that eating its horn would give
them a boner .) T he longer the challenger held out, the more po ints he got,
but you could win big bonuses f or speed. It helped to have the MaddAddam
printout of every extinct species, but that gave you only the Latin names,
and anyway it w as a couple of hundred pages of fine print and  filled with
obscure bugs, weeds, and frogs nobody had ever heard of. Nobody except,
it seeme d, the Extinctathon Grandmasters, who had brains like search
engines.
Y ou always knew when you were playing one of those because a little
Coelacanth symbol would come up on the screen. Coelacanth. Pr ehistoric
deep-sea fish, long supposed ext inct until specimens found in mid-twentieth.
Pr esent status unknown.  Extinctathon was nothing if not informative. It was
like some tedious pedant you got trapped beside on the school van, in
Jimmy’ s view . It wouldn’ t shut up.
“Why do you like this so much?” said Jimmy one day , to Crake’ s
hunched-over back.
“Because I’m good at it,” said C rake. Jimmy suspected him of w anting to
make G randmaster , not because  it meant anything but just because it was
there.
Crake had picked their coden ames. Jimmy’ s was Thickney , after a
defunct Australian double-jointed bird that used to hang around in
cemeteries, and – Jimmy suspec ted – because Crake liked the sound of it as
applied to Jimmy . Crake’ s codename was Crake, after the Red-necked
Crake, another Australian bird – never , said Crake, very nume rous. For a
while they called each other Crake and Thickney , as an in-joke. After Crake
had realized Jimmy was not wholeheartedly participating and they’d
stopped playing Extinctathon, T hickney as a name had faded away . But
Crake had stuck. 
 
When they weren’ t playing gam es they’d surf the Net – drop in on old
favourites, see what was new . They’d watch open-heart sur gery in live time,
or else the Noodie News, whic h was good for a few minutes because the
people on it tri ed to pretend there was nothing unusual going on and
studiously avoided looking at one another ’ s jujubes.
Or t hey’d watch animal snuf f s ites, Felicia’ s Frog Squash and the like,
though these quickly grew repetitious: one stomped frog, one ca t being torn
apart by hand, was much like another . Or they’d watch
dirtysockpuppets.com, a current-af fairs show about world polit ical leaders.
Crake said that with digital genalteration you couldn’ t tell whether any of
these generals and whatnot existed any more, and if they d id, whether
they’d actually said what you’ d heard. Anyway they were t oppled and
replaced with such rapidity that it hardly mattered.
Or they might watch hedsof f .com, which played live coverage of
executions in Asia. There they  could see enemies of the people being
topped with swords in someplace that looked like China, while thousands of
spectators cheered. Or they could watch alibooboo.com, with various
supposed thieves having their hands cut of f and adulterers and lipstick-
wearers being stoned to death by howling crowds, in dusty en claves that
purported to be in fundamentalist countries in the Middle East. The
coverage was usually poor on th at site: filming was said to be prohibited, so
it was just some desperate pauper with a hidden minivideocam, risking his
life for filthy W estern currency . Y ou saw mostly the backs and heads of the
spectators, so it was like being trapped inside a huge clothes rac k unless the
guy with  the camera got caught , and then there would be a flur ry of hands
and clot h before the picture we nt black. Crake said these bloodfests were
probably taking place on a back lot somewhere in California, with a bunch
of extras rounded up of f the streets.
Better than these were the A merican sites, with their sports-event
commentary – “Here he comes now! Y es! It’ s Joe ‘The Ratchet Set’
Ricardo, voted tops by you viewers!” Then a rundown of the c rimes, with
grisly pictures of the victims. Th ese sites would have spot comm ercials, forthings li ke car batteries and tranquilizers, and logos painted in bright yellow
on th e background walls. At least the Americans put some style into it, said
Crake.
Shortcircuit.com, brainfrizz.com , and deathrowlive.com were the best;
they sho wed electrocutions and lethal injections. Once they’d  made real-
time coverage legal, the guys being executed had started hamming it up for
the cameras. They were mostl y guys, with the occasional w oman, but
Jimmy d idn’ t lik e to watch tho se: a woman being croaked wa s a solemn,
weepy af fair , and people tended to stand around with lighted candles and
pictures of the k ids, or show up  with poems they’d written them selves. But
the g uys could be a riot. Y ou could watch them making faces , giving the
guards the finger , cracking joke s, and occasionally breaking free and being
chased around the room, trailing restraint straps and shouting foul abuse.
Crake said these incidents were bogus. He said the men were paid to do
it, or their famili es were. The sp onsors required them to put on a good show
because otherwise people would get bored and turn of f. The viewers wanted
to see the executions, yes, but a fter a while these could get monotonous, so
one last fighting chance had to be added in, or else an element of surprise.
T wo to one it was all rehearsed.
Jimmy said this was an awesome theory . A wesome  was another old word,
like bogus , that he’d dred ged out of the DVD archives. “Do you think
they’re really being executed ?” he said. “A lot of them look like
simulations.”
“Y ou never know ,” said Crake.
“Y ou never know what?”
“What is r eality ?”
“Bogus!”
There was an a ssisted-suicide s ite too – nitee-nite.com, it was  called –
which had a this-was-your -life component: family albums, interviews with
relatives, brave parties of friends standing by while the deed was taking
place to background or gan music. After the sad-eyed doctor had declared
that life  was extinct, there wer e taped testimonials from the participants
themselves, stating why they’d chosen to depart. The assisted-suicidestatistics shot way up after this s how got going. There was said to be a long
lineup o f people  willing to pay big bucks for a chance to appe ar on it and
snuf f themselves in glory , and lotteries were held to choose the participants.
Crake gr inned a lot while watching this site. For some reason h e found it
hilarious, where as Jimmy did n ot. He couldn’ t imagine doing such a thing
himself, unlike Crake, who said  it showed flair to know when you’d had
enough. But did Jimmy’ s reluct ance mean he was a coward, or was it just
that the or gan music sucked?
These planned departures made  him uneasy: they reminded him  of Alex
the parrot saying I’m going away now . There was too fine a line betw een
Alex the  parrot and the assisted  suicides and his mother and the note she’d
left for him. All three gave notice of their intentions; then all vanished.
 
 
Or they would w atch At Home W ith Anna K. Anna K. was a self-styled
installation artist with big boobs who’d wired up her apartment so that
every m oment o f her life was sent out live to millions of voyeurs. “This is
Anna K ., thinking always about my happiness and my unhappiness,” was
what you’d get as you joined he r . Then you might watch her tweezing her
eyebrows, waxing her bikini line, washing her underwear . Sometimes she’d
read scenes from old plays out l oud, taking all the parts, while sitting on the
can with her ret ro-look bell-bot tom jeans around her ankles. Th is was how
Jimmy first encountered Shakespeare – through Anna K.’ s rendition of
Macbeth .
 
 
T omorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow .
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day ,
T o the last syllable of recorded time;
And all our yesterdays have lighted fools
The way to dusty death,
 
 read An na K. She was a terrib le ham, but Snowman has alw ays been
grateful to her b ecause she’d been a doorway of sorts. Think what he might
not have known if it hadn’ t been for her . Think of the word s. Ser e , for
instance. Incarnadine .
“What is this shit?” said Crake. “Channel change!”
“No, wait, wait,” said Jimmy , who had been seized by – what?
Something he wanted to hear . A nd Crake waited, because he did humour
Jimmy sometimes.
Or they  would watch the Qu eek Geek Show , which had contests
featuring the eating of live animals and birds, timed by stopwatches, with
prizes of  hard-to-come-by foods. It was amazing what people w ould do for
a couple of lamb chops or a chunk of genuine brie.
Or they would watch porn shows. There were a lot of those.
 
 
When did the body first set out on its own adventures? Snowman thinks;
after having ditched its old travelling companions, the mind a nd the soul,
for whom it ha d once been co nsidered a mere corrupt vessel or else a
puppet a cting ou t their dramas for them, or else bad company , leading the
other two astray . It must have g ot tired of the soul’ s constant nagging and
whining and the anxiety-driven intellectual web-spinning of the mind,
distracting it whenever it was getting its teeth into something juicy or its
fingers into something good. It had dumped the other two back there
somewhere, leav ing them stranded in some damp sanctuary or st uf fy lecture
hall while it made a beeline for the topless bars, and it had dumped culture
along with them: music and pain ting and poetry and plays. Sublimation, all
of it ; no thing but sublimation, according to the body . Why not cut to the
chase?
But the body ha d its own cultural forms. It had its own art. Executions
were its tragedies, pornography was its romance.
 
 T o a ccess the m ore disgusting and forbidden sites – those for w hich you
had to be over eighteen, and fo r which you needed a special password –
Crake used his Uncle Pete’ s private code, via a complicated method he
called a lily-pad  labyrinth. He’d construct a winding pathway through the
W eb, hacking in at random through some easy-access commercial
enterprise, then skipping from l ily pad to lily pad, erasing his f ootprints as
he went. That w ay when Uncle Pete got the bill he couldn’ t find out who’d
run it up.
Crake had also located Uncle Pete’ s stash of high-grade V ancouver
skunkweed, kept in orange-juice cans in the freezer; he’d take out about a
quarter of the c an, then mix in  some of the low-octane carpe t sweepings
you could buy at the school tu ck shop for fifty bucks a baggie. He said
Uncle Pete would never know because he never smoked exce pt when he
wanted t o have sex with Crake’ s mother , which – judging from the number
of orang e-juice cans and the r ate at which they were getting  used up –
wasn’ t o ften. Crake said Uncle Pete got his real kicks at the of fice, bossing
people a round, whipping the wage slaves. He used to be a scient ist, but now
he w as a lar ge managerial ultra-cheese at HelthW yzer , on the fi nancial end
of things.
So they ’d roll a few joints and smoke them while watching the
executions and the porn – the b ody parts moving around on the screen in
slow mo tion, an  underwater ballet of flesh and blood under stress, hard and
soft join ing and separating, groans and screams, close-ups of clenched eyes
and clen ched te eth, spurts of this or that. If you switched back and forth
fast, it all came to look like the  same event. Sometimes they’d have both
things on at once, each on a dif ferent screen.
These se ssions w ould take place for the most part in silence, e xcept for
the sound ef fects coming from  the machines. It would be Crake who’d
decide what to w atch and when to stop watching it. Fair enough, they were
his c omputers. He might say , “ Finished with that?” before changing. He
didn’ t se em to be af fected by an ything he saw , one way or the o ther , except
when he thought it was funny . He never seemed to get high, ei ther . Jimmy
suspected he didn’ t really inhale.Jimmy on the ot her hand would wobble homewards, still fuzzy  from the
dope and feeling as if he’d been to an or gy , one at which he’d had no
control at all ov er what had hap pened to him. What had been done to him.
He also felt very light, as if he were made of air; thin, dizzying air , at the
top of some garb age-strewn Mount Everest. Back at home base,  his parental
units – supposin g they were the re, and downstairs – never seem ed to notice
a thing.
“Getting enough to eat?” Ramona might say to him. She’d interpret his
mumble as a yes.
 
 H o t t T o t t s
Late afternoons were the best time for doing these things at Crake’ s
place. N obody interrupted them.  Crake’ s mother was out a lot, o r in a hurry;
she work ed as a diagnostician at the hospital complex. She was an intense,
square-jawed, d ark-haired woman with not much of a chest. On the rare
occasions when Jimmy had bee n there at the same time as Crak e’ s mother ,
she hadn’ t said much. She’d dug around in the kitchen cupboards for
something that would pass as a snack for “you boys,” as she ca lled the two
of them.  Sometimes she would stop in the middle of her prepar ations – the
dumping of stale crackers onto a plate, the sawing up of chewy orange-and-
white-marbled h unks of cheesefood – and stand stock-still, as if she could
see someone else in the room. Jimmy had the impression s he couldn’ t
remember his name; not only t hat, she couldn’ t remember Crake’ s name
either . S ometimes she would ask Crake if his room was tidy , though she
never went in there herself.
“She believes in respecting a child’ s privacy ,” said Crake, straight-faced.
“I bet it’ s your mouldy socks,” said Jimmy . “All the perfumes of Arabia
will not sweeten these little socks.” He’d recently discovered the joys of
quotation.
“For that we’ve got room spray ,” said Crake.
As for Uncle P ete, he was rarely home before seven. HelthW yzer was
expanding like helium, and therefore he had a lot of new responsibilities.
He w asn’ t Crake’ s real uncle, he  was just Crake’ s mother ’ s second husband.
He’d tak en on that status when  Crake had been twelve, a couple of years
too old for the “uncle” tag to have been viewed by him as anything but
totally r ancid. Y et Crake had a ccepted the status quo, or so it appeared.
He’d smile, he’d say Sur e, Uncle Pete  and That’ s ri ght, Un cle Pete  when
the man was around, even though Jimmy knew Crake disliked him.
 
 
One afternoon in – what? March, it must have been, because it was
already hot as he ll outside – the two of them were watching por n in Crake’ s
room. A lready it felt like old time’ s sake, already it felt like nostalgia –something they were too grown -up for , like middle-aged guys cruising the
pleebland teeny clubs. Still, they dutifully lit up a joint, hacked into Uncle
Pete’ s d igital char ge card via a  new labyrinth, and started surfing. They
checked into T art of the Day , which featured elaborate confectionery in the
usual or ifices, then went to Su perswallowers; then to a Russian site that
employed ex-acrobats, ballerinas, and contortionists.
“Whoever said a guy can’ t suc k his own?” was Crake’ s comm ent. The
high-wire act with the six flaming torches was pretty good, but they’d seen
things like that before.
Then th ey went to HottT otts, a global sex-trotting site. “The next best
thing to being there,” was how it was advertised. It claimed to show real sex
tourists, filmed while doing things they’d be put in jail for b ack in their
home co untries. Their faces weren’ t visible, their names weren’ t used, but
the poss ibilities for blackmail, Snowman realizes now , must  have been
extensive. The locations were supposed to be countries whe re life was
cheap and kids were plentiful,  and where you could buy anything you
wanted.
This wa s how the two of them f irst saw Oryx. She was only about eight,
or s he l ooked eight. They could never find out for certain how  old she’d
been then. Her name wasn’ t O ryx, she didn’ t have a name. She was just
another little girl on a porno site.
None of those li ttle girls had ever seemed real to Jimmy – they ’d always
struck him as digital clones – but for some reason Oryx was three-
dimensional from the start. She was small-boned and exquisite, and naked
like the rest of them, with nothing on her but a garland of flowers and a
pink hai r ribbon , frequent props on the sex-kiddie sites. She was on her
knees, with another little girl on either side of her , positioned in front of the
standard gar gantuan Gulliver -in-Lilliput male torso – a life-sized man
shipwrecked on an island of delicious midgets, or stolen away and
entranced, force d to experience agonizing pleasures by a trio of soulless
pixies. The guy’ s distinguishi ng features were concealed – bag with
eyeholes over the head, sur gical tape over the tattoos and scars: few of these
types wa nted to be spotted by the folks back home, though the p ossibility of
detection must have been part of the thrill.The act involved whipped cream and a lot of licking. The ef fect was both
innocent and obscene: the three of them were going over the gu y with their
kittenish tongues and their tiny fingers, giving him a thorough  workout to
the sound of moans and giggles. The giggles must have been recorded,
because they weren’ t coming  from the three girls: they all looked
frightened, and one of them was crying.
Jimmy k new the  drill. They wer e supposed to look like that, he thought;
if they stopped t he action, a walking stick would come in from of fside and
prod them. This was a feature of  the site. There were at least three layers of
contradictory make-believe, one on top of the other . I want to , I wa nt to  not ,
I want to .
Oryx paused in her activities. Sh e smiled a hard little smile that made her
appear much older , and wiped the whipped cream from her m outh. Then
she looked over her shoulder and right into the eyes of the viewer – right
into Jim my’ s ey es, into the sec ret person inside him. I see you , that look
said. I see you watching. I know you. I know what you want.
Crake p ushed the reverse, then the freeze, then the download. Every so
often he froze fr ames; by now h e had a small archive of them. Sometimes
he’d pri nt them out and give a copy to Jimmy . It could be dan gerous – it
could leave a f ootprint for anyone who might manage to trace a way
through the labyrinth – but Crake did it anyway . So now he saved that one
moment, the moment when Oryx looked.
Jimmy felt burned by this look – eaten into, as if by acid. She’d been so
contemptuous o f him. The joint  he’d been smoking must have had nothing
in it  but  lawn mowings: if it ha d been stronger he might have been able to
bypass guilt. But for the first tim e he’d felt that what they’d been doing was
wrong. Before, it had always b een entertainment, or else far beyond his
control, but now he felt culpable. At the same time he felt hooked through
the gills: if he’d  been of fered instant teleportation to whereve r Oryx was
he’d hav e taken it, no question. He’d have begged to go there. It was all too
complicated.
“This a keeper?” Crake said. “Y ou want it?”
“Y eah,” said Jimmy . He could barely get the word out. He hoped he
sounded normal. 
 
So Crake had printed it, the picture of Oryx looking, and Snowman had
saved it and saved it. He’d shown it to Oryx many years later .
“I don’ t think this is me,” was what she’d said at first.
“It has to be!” said Jimmy . “Look! It’ s your eyes!”
“A l ot of girls have eyes,” she said. “A lot of girls did these things. V ery
many .” Then, seeing his disappo intment, she said, “It might be  me. Maybe
it is. W ould that make you happy , Jimmy?”
“No,” said Jimmy . W as that a lie?
“Why did you keep it?”
“What were you thinking?” Snowman said instead of answering.
Another woman  in her place would have crumpled up the picture, cried,
denounced him as a criminal, told him he understood nothing about her life,
made a general scene. Instead she smoothed out the paper , running her
fingers g ently over the soft, sco rnful child’ s face that had – surely – once
been hers.
“Y ou th ink I was thinking?” she said. “Oh Jimmy! Y ou always think
everyone is thinking. Maybe I wasn’ t thinking anything.”
“I know you were,” he said.
“Y ou want me to pretend? Y ou want me to make something up?”
“No. Just tell me.”
“Why?”
Jimmy had to think about that. He remembered himself watching. How
could he have do ne that to her? And yet it hadn’ t hurt her , had i t? “Because
I need you to.” Not much of a reason, but it was all he could come up with.
She sigh ed. “I was thinking,” s he said, tracing a little circle on his skin
with her fingernail, “that if I ever got the chance, it would not be me down
on my knees.”
“It would be someone else?” said Jimmy . “Who? What someone?”“Y ou want to know everything,” said Oryx.
 
 T o a s t
Snowman in his tattered sheet si ts hunched at the edge of the tre es, where
grass and vetch and sea grapes mer ge into sand. Now that it’ s cooler he
feels less dejected. Also he’ s hungry . There’ s something to be said for
hunger: at least it lets you know you’re still alive.
A br eeze rif fles the leaves overhead; insects rasp and trill; red l ight from
the s etting sun h its the tower bl ocks in the water , illuminating a n unbroken
pane here and there, as if a scattering of lamps has been turned on. Several
of th e buildings once held roof  gardens, and now they’re top-heavy with
over grown shrubbery . Hundreds of birds are streaming acro ss the sky
towards them, roostward bound. Ibis? Herons? The black ones are
cormorants, he knows that for sure. They settle down into the darkening
foliage, croaking and squabbling. If he ever needs guano he’ll know where
to find it.
Across the clearing to the sou th comes a rabbit, hopping, listening,
pausing to nibble at the grass with its gigantic teeth. It glows in the dusk, a
greenish glow filched from the  iridicytes of a deep-sea jellyfish in some
long-ago experiment. In the half-light the rabbit looks soft and almost
translucent, like a piece of T urk ish delight; as if you could suck of f its fur
like sugar . Even in Snowman’ s b oyhood there were luminous green rabbits,
though they weren’ t this big and they hadn’ t yet slipped their cages and
bred with the wild population, and become a nuisance.
This one  has no fear of him, tho ugh it fills him with carnivorous desires:
he longs to whack it with a rock, tear it apart with his bare hands, then cram
it int o his mouth, fur and all. But rabbits belong to the Children of Oryx and
are sacred to Oryx herself, and it would be a bad idea to of fend the women.
It’ s h is o wn fault. He must have been stupefied with drink whe n he was
laying d own the  laws. He shou ld have made rabbits edible, by  himself at
any rate , but he can’ t change that now . He can almost hear Oryx, laughing
at him with indulgent, faintly malicious delight.
The Children of Oryx, the Children of Crake. He’d had to think of
something. Get your story straig ht, keep it simple, don’ t falter: this used to
be the expert advice given by lawyers to criminals in the dock. Crake madethe b ones of the  Childr en of Cr ake out of the coral on the beac h, and then
he made  their flesh out of a man go. But the Childr en of Oryx hatched out of
an egg, a giant egg laid by Oryx herself. Actually she laid two eggs: one full
of an imals and b ir ds and fish, a nd the other one full of wor ds. But the egg
full of wor ds hatched first, and the Childr en of Crake had alr eady been
cr eated by then, and they’d eaten up all the wor ds because they wer e
hungry , and so t her e wer e no wor ds left over when the second egg hatched
out. And that is why the animals can’ t talk.
Internal consistency is best. Snowman learned this earlier in his life,
when lying had posed more of a challenge for him. Now even  when he’ s
caught in a minor contradiction he can make it stick, because these people
trust him. He’ s t he only one left  who’d known Crake face to face, so he can
lay claim to the inside track. Above his head flies the invisibl e banner of
Crakedom, of Crakiness, of Crakehood, hallowing all he does.
The first star appears. “Star li ght, star bright,” he says. Som e grade-
school teacher . Big-bum Sally . Now clo se your eyes right up tig ht. T ighter!
Really ti ght! The r e! See the wishing star? Now we will all wish for the thing
we want the very , very most of all in the whole wide world. But shhh – don’ t
tell anyone, or the wish won’ t come true!
Snowman screw s his eyes shut, pushes his fists into them, clenches his
entire fa ce. Ther e’ s the wishing star all right: it’ s blue. “I wish I may , I wish
I might,” he says. “Have the wish I wish tonight.”
Fat chance.
 
 
“Oh Sno wman, why are you tal king to no one?” says a voice. S nowman
opens his eyes: three of the older children are standing just o ut of reach,
regarding him with interest. They must have crept up on him in the dusk.
“I’m talking to Crake,” he says.
“But you talk to Crake through your shiny thing! Is it broken?”
Snowman lifts his left arm, holds out his watch. “This is for listening  to
Crake. T alking  to him is dif ferent.”“Why ar e you talking to him about stars? What are you telling to Crake,
oh Snowman?”
What, indeed? thinks Snowman. When dealing with indigenous peoples ,
says the book in  his head – a m ore modern book this time, late twentieth
century , the voice a confident fe male’ s – you mus t attempt to r espect the ir
traditions and confine your explanations to simple concepts that can be
understood within the contexts of their belief systems . Some earnest aid
worker i n a khaki jungle outfit, with netting under the arms an d a hundred
pockets. Condescending self-righteous cow , thinks she’ s got all the answers.
He’d known girls like that at college. If she were here she’d need a whole
new take on indigenous .
“I was telling him,” says Snowman, “that you ask too many questions.”
He h olds his watch to his ear . “And he’ s telling me that if you  don’ t stop
doing that, you’ll be toast.”
“Please, oh Snowman, what is toast?”
Another error , Snowman thinks. He should avoid arcane metaphors.
“T oast,” he says, “is something very , very bad. It’ s so bad I  can’ t even
describe it. Now it’ s your bedtime. Go away .”
 
 
“What is toast?” says Snowman to himself, once they’ve run of f. T oast is
when you take a piece of br ead – What is br ead? Br ead is when you take
some flo ur – What is flour? W e’ll skip that part, it’ s too complicated. Br ead
is something you can eat, made  fr om a gr ound-up plant and shaped like a
stone. Y o u cook it . . . Please, w hy do you cook it? Why don’ t you just eat
the plan t? Neve r mind that part – Pay attention. Y ou cook it, and then you
cut it into slices,  and you put a s lice into a toaster , which is a me tal box that
heats up with electricity – Wh at is electricity? Don’ t worry about that.
While the slice is in the toaster , you get out the butter – butter is a yellow
gr ease, m ade fr om the mammary glands of – skip the butter . So , the toaster
turns the slice of br ead black on both sides with smoke coming out, and
then this “toaster” shoots the sl ice up into the air , and it falls onto the floor
. . .“For get it,” says Snowman. “Let’ s try again.” T oast was a pointless
invention fr om the Dark Ages. T oast was an implement of tortur e that
caused all those subjected to it  to r egur gitate in verbal form the sins and
crimes o f their past lives. T oast  was a ritual item devour ed by fetishists in
the beli ef that it would enhan ce their kinetic and sexual powers. T oast
cannot be explained by any rational means.
T oast is me.
I am toast.
 
 F i s h
The sky darkens from ultramarine to indigo. God bless the namers of oil
paints a nd high-class women’ s underwear , Snowman thinks. Rose-Petal
Pink, C rimson Lake, Sheer Mist, Burnt Umber , Ripe Plum, Indigo,
Ultramarine – they’re fantasies in themselves, such words and phrases. It’ s
comforting to remember that Homo sapiens sapiens  was once so ingenious
with lan guage, a nd not only wit h language. Ingenious in every direction at
once.
Monkey brains, had been Crake’ s opinion. Monkey paws, monkey
curiosity , the desire to take apa rt, turn inside out, smell, fondle, measure,
improve, trash, discard – all hooked up to monkey brains, an advanced
model of monkey brains but mo nkey brains all the same. Crake had no very
high opi nion of human ingenuit y , despite the lar ge amount of it he himself
possessed.
 
 
There’ s a murmuring of voices from the direction of the village, or from
what would be a  village if it had any houses. Right on schedule , here come
the men, carrying their torches, and behind them the women.
Every time the women appear ,  Snowman is astonished all ov er again.
They’re every known colour from deepest black to whitest white, they’re
various heights,  but each one of them is admirably proportion ed. Each is
sound of tooth, smooth of skin . No ripples of fat around their waists, no
bulges, no dimpled orange-skin cellulite on their thighs. No bo dy hair , no
bushiness. They  look like retouched fashion photos, or ads for a high-priced
workout program.
Maybe this is the reason that these women arouse in Snowman not even
the faint est stirr ings of lust. It was the thumbprints of human i mperfection
that used to mov e him, the flaw s in the design: the lopsided smile, the wart
next to the navel, the mole, the bruise. These were the places he’d single
out, putting his mouth on them. W as it consolation he’d had in mind,
kissing the wound to make it better? There was always an element of
melancholy involved in sex. After his indiscriminate adolescence he’d
preferred sad women, delicate a nd breakable, women who’d been messedup and who nee ded him. He’d l iked to comfort them, stroke the m gently at
first, rea ssure th em. Make them happier , if only for a moment. H imself too,
of course; that was the payof f. A grateful woman would go the extra mile.
But thes e new women are neith er lopsided nor sad: they’re placid, like
animated statues. They leave him chilled.
 
 
The wom en are carrying his weekly fish, grilled the way he’ s tau ght them
and wrapped in leaves. He can smell it, he’ s starting to drool. They bring
the fish forward, put it on the gr ound in front of him. It will be a shore fish,
a sp ecies too p altry and tasteless to have been coveted and sold and
exterminated, o r else a bottom-feeder pimply with toxins, but Snowman
couldn’ t care less, he’ll eat anything.
“Here is  your fish, oh Snowman,” says one of the men, the one called
Abraham. Abraham as in Lincoln: it had amused Crake to name his Crakers
after eminent historical figures.  It had all seemed innocent enough, at the
time.
“This is the one fish chosen for you tonight,” says the woman h olding it;
the E mpress Josephine, or else Madame Curie or Sojourner T ru th, she’ s in
the shade so he can’ t tell which. “This is the fish Oryx gives you.”
Oh good, thinks Snowman. Catch of the Day .
Every week, according to the phases of the moon – dark, first quarter ,
full, sec ond quarter – the wom en stand in the tidal pools and call the
unlucky fish by name – only fish , nothing  more specific. Then th ey point it
out, and  the men kill it with roc ks and sticks. That way the unpleasantness
is sh ared among them and no si ngle person is guilty of shedding the fish’ s
blood.
If things had gone as Crake wanted, there would be no more su ch killing
– no  mo re huma n predation – b ut he’d reckoned without Snowman and his
beastly appetites. Snowman can’ t live on clover . The people would never
eat a  fish themselves, but they have to bring him one a week because he’ s
told them Crake has decreed it. They’ve accepted Snowman’ smonstrousness, they’ve known from the beginning he was a se parate order
of being, so they weren’ t surprised by this.
Idiot, he thinks. I should have m ade it three a day . He unwraps the warm
fish from  its leaves, trying to ke ep his hands from trembling. H e shouldn’ t
get too carried away . But he always does.
The peo ple keep their distance and avert their eyes while he crams
handfuls of fishiness into his mouth and sucks out the eyes and cheeks,
groaning with pleasure. Perhaps it’ s like hearing a lion gor ge itself, at the
zoo, bac k when there were zoos, back when there were lions – a rending
and crunching, a horrible gobbling and gulping – and, like those long-gone
zoo visit ors, the Crakers can’ t help peeking. The spectacle of depravity is of
interest even to them, it seems, purified by chlorophyll though they are.
When S nowman has finished he licks his fingers and wipes them on his
sheet, and places the bones back in their leaf wrappings, ready to be
returned to the sea. He’ s told them Oryx wants that – she needs the bones of
her c hildren so s he can make ot her children out of them. They’ ve accepted
this with out que stion, like everything he says about Oryx. In reality it’ s one
of h is smarter p loys: no sense l eaving the scraps around on land, to attract
rakunks and wolvogs and pigoons and other scavengers.
 
 
The people move closer , men a nd women both, gathering around, their
green ey es luminescent in the semi-darkness, just like the rabbit: same
jellyfish gene. Sitting all together like this, they smell like a crateful of
citrus fruit – an added feature on the part of Crake, who’d th ought those
chemicals would ward of f mosquitoes. Maybe he was right, bec ause all the
mosquitoes for miles around ap pear to be biting Snowman. H e resists the
ur ge to swat: his fresh blood only excites them. He shifts to the  left so he’ s
more in the smoke of the torches.
“Snowman, tell us please about the deeds of Crake.”
A st ory is what they want, in exchange for every slaughtered fis h. W ell, I
owe them, Snowman thinks. God of Bullshit, fail me not.
“What part would you like to hear tonight?” he says.“In the beginning,” prompts a voice. They’re fond of repetition, they
learn things by heart.
“In the beginning, there was chaos,” he says.
“Show us chaos, please, oh Snowman!”
“Show us a picture of chaos!”
They’d struggle d with pictures, at first – flowers on beach-tra sh lotion
bottles, fruits on juice cans. Is it r eal? No, it is not r eal. W hat is this not
r eal? Not r eal can tell us about r eal.  And so forth. But now they appear to
have grasped the concept.
“Y es! Y es! A picture of chaos!” they ur ge.
Snowman has known this reque st would be made – all the stor ies begin
with cha os – and so he’ s ready for it. From behind his concrete-slab cache
he bring s out one of his finds – an orange plastic pail, faded to pink but
otherwise undam aged. He tries not to imagine what has happened to the
child who must once have owned it. “Bring some water ,” he says, holding
out t he pail. The re’ s a scramble around the ring of torches: hands reach out,
feet scamper of f into the darkness.
“In the chaos, everything was mixed together ,” he says. “There were too
many people, and so the people were all mixed up with the dirt.” The pail
comes b ack, sloshing, and is set down in the circle of light.  He adds a
handful of earth, stirs it with a stick. “There,” he says. “Chaos. Y ou can’ t
drink it . . .”
“No!” A chorus.
“Y ou can’ t eat it . . .”
“No, you can’ t eat it!” Laughter .
“Y ou can’ t swim in it, you can’ t stand on it . . .”
“No! No!” They love this bit.
“The people in the chaos were full of chaos themselves, and the chaos
made them do bad things. They were killing other people all the time. And
they were eating up all the Chi ldren of Oryx, against the wishes of Oryx
and Crake. Every day they were eating them up. They were killing themand killi ng them , and eating th em and eating them. They ate  them even
when they weren’ t hungry .”
Gasping here, widened eyes: it’ s always a dramatic mome nt. Such
wickedness! He continues: “And Oryx had only one desire – she  wanted the
people to be hap py , and to be at peace, and to stop eating up h er children.
But the people couldn’ t be happ y , because of the chaos. And then Oryx said
to Crake, Let u s g et rid of the chaos . And so Crake took the chaos, and he
poured it away .” Snowman dem onstrates, sloshing the water of f to the side,
then turns the pail upside down. “There. Empty . And this is how Crake did
the Grea t Rearrangement and made the Great Emptiness. He cleared away
the dirt, he cleared room . . .”
“For his children! For the Children of Crake!”
“Right. And for . . .”
“And for the Children of Oryx, as well!”
“Right,” says Snowman. Is there no end to his shameless inventions? He
feels like crying.
“Crake made the Great Emptiness . . . ,” say the men.
“For us!  For us!” say the wom en. It’ s becoming a litur gy . “O h, good,
kind Crake!”
Their adulation of Crake enrages Snowman, though this adulation has
been his own doing. The Cra ke they’re praising is his fa brication, a
fabrication not unmixed with sp ite: Crake was against the notion  of God, or
of g ods of any kind, and would surely be disgusted by the spec tacle of his
own gradual deification.
If he  we re here. But he’ s not he re, and it’ s galling for Snowman  to listen
to all this misplaced sucking up. Why don’ t they glorify Snowman instead?
Good, kind Snowman, who de serves glorification more – much more –
because who got them out, who got them here, who’ s been wa tching over
them all this tim e? W ell, sort of watching. It sure as hell wasn’ t Crake. Why
can’ t Snowman  revise the mythology? Thank m e, not him! Lick my e go
instead!But for now his  bitterness must be swallowed. “Y es,” he says. “Good,
kind Cr ake.” H e twists his mouth into what he hopes is a gracious and
benevolent smile.
At first he’d im provised, but now they’re demanding dogma: he would
deviate from orthodoxy at his peril. He might not lose his life – these people
aren’ t violent or given to bloodthirsty acts of retribution, or not so far – but
he’d lose his audience. They’d turn their backs on him, they’d wander
away . He is Crak e’ s prophet now , whether he likes it or not; and the prophet
of Oryx as well . That, or nothin g. And he couldn’ t stand to be nothing, to
know himself to be nothing. H e needs to be listened to, he needs to be
heard. He needs at least the illusion of being understood.
“Oh Sno wman, tell us about w hen Crake was born,” says o ne of the
women. This is a new request. He isn’ t ready for it, though he should have
expected it: children are of great interest to these women. Careful, he tells
himself. Once he provides a mo ther and a birth scene and an infant Crake
for t hem, they’ll want the details. They’ll want to know when C rake cut his
first tooth and spoke his first word and ate his first root, and  other such
banalities.
“Crake w as nev er born,” says S nowman. “He came down out o f the sky ,
like thun der . Now go away please, I’m tired.” He’ll add to this  fable later .
Maybe he’ll endow Crake with  horns, and wings of fire, and a llow him a
tail for good measure.
 
 B o t t l e
After th e Children of Crake have filed away , taking their torches with
them, Snowman clambers up his tree and tries to sleep. All around him are
noises: the slurping of the waves, insect chirpings and whirrings, bird
whistles, amphibious croaks, the rustling of leaves. His ears deceive him: he
thinks he can he ar a jazz horn, and under that a rhythmic drum ming, as if
from a muf fled nightclub. From  somewhere farther along the shore comes a
booming, bellow ing sound: now what? He can’ t think of any animal that
makes s uch a noise. Perhaps it’ s a crocodile, escaped from a def unct Cuban
handbag farm and working its way north along the shore. That would be
bad new s for the kids in swimm ing. He listens again, but the sound doesn’ t
recur .
There’ s a distant, peaceful mur mur from the village: human voices. If
you can call them  human. As long as they don’ t start singing. Their singing
is unlike  anythin g he ever heard in his vanished life: it’ s beyond the human
level, or below it. As if crystals are singing; but not that, either . More like
ferns unscrolling – something old, carboniferous, but at the same time
newborn, fragra nt, verdant. It reduces him, forces too many  unwanted
emotions upon him. He feels ex cluded, as if from a party to w hich he will
never be invited. All he’d have to do is step forward into the firelight and
there’d be a ring of suddenly blank faces turned towards him. Silence would
fall, as in tragic  plays of long ago when the doomed protagonist made an
entrance, envelo ped in his cloa k of contagious bad news. On  some non-
conscious level Snowman must serve as a reminder to these peo ple, and not
a p leasa nt one: he’ s what they may have been once. I’m your past , he might
intone. I’m your ancestor , come fr om the land of the dead. Now I’m lost, I
can’ t get back, I’m stranded her e, I’m all alone. Let me in!
Oh Snowman, how may we be of help to you? The mild smiles, the polite
surprise, the puzzled goodwill.
For get it , he would say . There’ s no way they can help him, not really .
 
 
There’ s a chilly breeze blowing; the sheet is damp; he shivers. If only this
place ha d a thermostat. Maybe he could figure out some way o f building alittle fire, up here in his tree.
“Go to sleep,” h e orders himself. W ith no result. After a long session of
tossing, turning, and scratching, he climbs back down to seek out the Scotch
bottle in his cache. There’ s enough starlight so he can get his bearings, more
or less. He’ s made this trip many times in the past: for the first month and a
half, afte r he was fairly sure it was safe to relax his vigilance, he got pissed
out of his mind every night. This was not a wise or mature thing for him to
have done, granted, but of what use are wisdom and maturity to him now?
So e very night had been party night, party of one. Or every night he’d
had the makings , whenever he’d been able to locate another stash of alcohol
in th e abandoned pleebland build ings within reach. He’d scoured the nearby
bars first, then the restaurants,  then the houses and trailers. He’d done
cough medicine , shaving lotion, rubbing alcohol; out behind the tree he’ s
accumulated an impressive dum p of empty bottles. Once in a while he’d
come ac ross a stash of weed and  he’d done that too, though often enough it
was mouldy; still, he might manage to get a buzz out of it. Or he might find
some pills. No coke or crack o r heroin – that would have been used up
early , stuf fed into veins and nos es in one last burst of carpe diem ; anything
for a vacation f rom reality , under the circumstances. There’d been empty
BlyssPluss containers everywhere, all you’d need for a non-stop or gy . The
revellers hadn’ t managed to get through all the booze, though o ften enough
on h is hu nting a nd gathering trips he’ s discovered that others had been there
before h im and there was nothing left but broken glass. There must have
been rio tous beh aviour of all so rts imaginable, until finally there had been
no one left to keep it up.
At g round level it’ s dark as an armpit. A flashlight would come in handy ,
one of the windu p kind. He shou ld keep an eye out. He gropes a nd stumbles
in the right direction, scanning the ground for a glimmer of the vicious
white la nd crab s that come out  of their burrows and scuttle around after
dark – those things can give you  quite a nip – and after a short d etour into a
clump o f bushes, he locates his cement hidey-hole by stubbing his toe on it.
He r efrains from swearing: no way of telling what else might be prowling
around i n the night. He slides open the cache, fumbles blindly within it,
retrieves the third of Scotch.He’ s been saving it up, resisting the ur ge to binge, keeping it as a sort of
charm – as long as he’ s known it was still there it’ s been easier to get
through time. This might be the last of it. He’ s certain he has explored every
likely si te withi n a day’ s out-an d-back radius of his tree. But he’ s feeling
reckless. Why hoard the stuf f? Why wait? What’ s his life worth anyway ,
and who cares? Out, out, brief candle. He’ s served his evolutionary purpose,
as fucking Crake knew he would. He’ s saved the children.
“ Fucking  Crake!” he can’ t help yelling.
Clutching the bottle with one hand, feeling his way with the other , he
reaches his tree again. He need s both hands for climbing, so he knots the
bottle se curely into his sheet. Once up, he sits on his platfo rm, gulping
down the Scotch and howling at  the stars – Ar oo! Ar oo!  – until he’ s startled
by a chorus of replies from right near the tree.
Is that the gleam of eyes? He can hear panting.
“Hello, my furry pals,” he calls down. “Who wants to be m an’ s best
friend?” In answer there’ s a s upplicating whine. That’ s the worst thing
about w olvogs: they still look li ke dogs, still behave like dogs, pricking up
their ears, making playful puppy leaps and bounces, wagging their tails.
They’ll sucker you in, then go f or you. It hasn’ t taken much to reverse fifty
thousand years of man-canid interaction. As for the real dogs,  they never
stood a chance: the wolvogs have simply killed and eaten all t hose who’d
shown signs of vestigial domesticated status. He’ s seen a wolvog advance
to a yapping Pek inese in a frien dly manner , snif f its bum, then lunge for its
throat, shake it like a mop, and canter of f with the limp body .
For a while there were still a few woebegone house pets sc rounging
around, skinny and limping, their fur matted and dull, begging with
bewildered eyes to be taken in by some human, any human. The Children of
Crake hadn’ t fit their bill – they  must have smelled weird to a dog, sort of
like walking fruits, especially at dusk when the citrus-oil insect repellant
kicked in – and in any case the y’d shown no interest in pupp y-dogs as a
concept, so the strays had concentrated on Snowman. He’d alm ost given in
a couple  of times, he’d found it hard to resist their ingratiatin g wriggles,
their piti ful whin ing, but he cou ldn’ t af ford to feed them; anywa y they were
useless to him. “It’ s sink or sw im,” he’d told them. “Sorry , old buddy .”He’d dri ven the m away with sto nes, feeling like a complete sh it, and there
haven’ t been any more lately .
What a fool he’d been. He’d let them go to waste. He should have eaten
them. Or taken one in, trained it to catch rabbits. Or to defend him. Or
something.
W olvogs can’ t climb trees, which is one good thing. If they get numerous
enough and too persistent, he’ll  have to start swinging from vine to vine,
like T arz an. Tha t’ s a funny idea, so he laughs. “All you want is my body!”
he yells  at them. Then he drain s the bottle and throws it down. There’ s a
yelp, a scuttling : they still resp ect missiles. But how long ca n that last?
They’re smart; very soon they’ll sense his vulnerability , start hunting him.
Once th ey begin  he’ll never be able to go anywhere, or anywhere without
trees. All they’ll have to do is get him out in the open, encircle him, close in
for the kill. There’ s only so much you can do with stones and pointed sticks.
He really needs to find another spraygun.
 
 
After the wolvogs have gone he  lies on his back on the platform , gazing
up at the stars th rough the gently moving leaves. They seem clo se, the stars,
but they’re far a way . Their light is millions, billions of years out of date.
Messages with no sender .
T ime passes. He wants to sing a song but can’ t think of one. Old music
rises up in him, fades; all he c an hear is the percussion. May be he could
whittle a flute, o ut of some bra nch or stem or something, if only he could
find a knife.
“Star light, star bright,” he says.  What comes next? It’ s gone right out of
his head.
No moon, tonight is the dark of the moon, although the moon  is there
nevertheless and must be rising now , a huge invisible ball of stone, a giant
lump of gravity , dead but powerful, drawing the sea towards itself. Drawing
all fluids. The human body is ninety-eight per cent water , says the book in
his head . This time it’ s a man’ s voice, an encyclopedia voice ; no one he
knows, or knew . The other two per cent is made up of minerals, mostimportantly the ir on in the blood and the calcium of which the skeletal
frame and the teeth ar e comprised.
“Who g ives a rat’ s ass?” says S nowman. He doesn’ t care about the iron
in his blood or the calcium in hi s skeletal frame; he’ s tired of being himself,
he wants to be someone else. T urn over all his cells, get a c hromosome
transplant, trade in his head for some other head, one with better things in it.
Fingers moving over him, for in stance, little fingers with oval n ails, painted
ripe plum or crimson lake or rose-petal pink. I w ish I may , I w ish I might,
Have the wish I wish tonight.  Fingers, a mouth. A dull heavy ache begins, at
the base of his spine.
“Oryx,” he says. “I know you’re there.” He repeats the name. It’ s not
even her  real name, which he’d never known anyway; it’ s only a word. It’ s
a mantra.
Sometimes he can conjure her u p. At first she’ s pale and shadowy , but if
he c an say her name over and o ver , then maybe she’ll glide in to his body
and be present with him in his flesh, and his hand on himself will become
her hand. But she’ s always been evasive, you can never pin her down.
T onight she fails to materialize and he is left alone, whimpering
ridiculously , jerking of f all by himself in the dark.
 
 O r y x
Snowman wakes up suddenly . Has someone touched him? But there’ s
nobody there, nothing.
It’ s totally dark, no stars. Clouds must have come in.
He turns  over , pulls his sheet a round him. He’ s shivering: it’ s the night
breeze. Most likely he’ s still drunk; sometimes it’ s hard to tell. He stares up
into the darknes s, wondering how soon it will be morning, hoping he’ll be
able to go back to sleep.
There’ s an owl hooting somewhere. That fierce vibration, up close and
far away at once, like the lowest note on a Peruvian flute. Maybe it’ s
hunting. Hunting what?
Now he can feel Oryx floating t owards him through the air , as if on soft
feathery wings. She’ s landing  now , settling; she’ s very close to him,
stretched out on her side just a skin’ s distance away . Miraculously she can
fit onto the platform beside him, although it isn’ t a lar ge platform. If he had
a candle or a flashlight he’d be able to see her , the slender outline of her , a
pale glo w again st the darkness. If he put out his hand he could touch her;
but that would make her vanish.
“It wasn’ t the sex,” he says to he r . She doesn’ t answer , but he can feel her
disbelief. He’ s making her sad because he’ s taking away s ome of her
knowledge, her power . “It was n’ t just the sex.” A dark smile from her:
that’ s be tter . “Y ou know I love you. Y ou’re the only one.” She i sn’ t the first
woman he’ s ever said that to. He shouldn’ t have used it up so much earlier
in his life, he shouldn’ t have treated it like a tool, a wedge, a key to open
women. By the time he got aro und to meaning it, the words had sounded
fraudulent to him and he’d been  ashamed to pronounce them. “No, really ,”
he says to Oryx.
No a nswer , no r esponse. She was never very forthcoming at the best of
times.
 
 
“T ell me just one thing,” he’d say , back when he was still Jimmy .“Ask me a question,” she’d reply .
So he would ask , and then she might say , “I don’ t know . I’ve for gotten.”
Or , “I don’ t want to tell you that.” Or , “Jimmy , you are so bad, it’ s not your
business.” Once  she’d said, “Y ou have a lot of pictures in your head,
Jimmy . Where did you get them ? Why do you think they are pictures of
me?”
He t hought he u nderstood her vagueness, her evasiveness. “It’ s all right,”
he’d told her , stroking her hair . “None of it was your fault.”
“None of what, Jimmy?”
 
 
How long had i t taken him to piece her together from the slive rs of her
he’d gat hered an d hoarded so ca refully? There was Crake’ s story about her ,
and Jimmy’ s story about her as well, a more romantic version; and then
there wa s her own story about h erself, which was dif ferent from both, and
not v ery romantic at all. Snowman rif fles through these three stories in his
head. Th ere mus t once have bee n other versions of her: her mother ’ s story ,
the story of the man who’d bought her , the story of the man who’d bought
her after that, and the third man’ s story – the worst man of them all, the one
in San Francisco, a pious bullshit artist; but Jimmy had never heard those.
Oryx wa s so delicate. Filigree, he would think, picturing her bones inside
her small body . She had a triangular face – big eyes, a sm all jaw – a
Hymenoptera face, a mantid face, the face of a Siamese cat. Skin of the
palest yellow , smooth and translucent, like old, expensive porcelain.
Looking at her , you knew that a woman of such beauty , slightne ss, and one-
time pov erty must have led a dif ficult life, but that this life wou ld not have
consisted in scrubbing floors.
“Did you ever scrub floors?” Jimmy asked her once.
“Floors?” She thought a minute . “W e didn’ t have floors. When  I got as
far a s the floors , it wasn’ t me scrubbing them.” One thing abou t that early
time, sh e said, the time withou t floors: the pounded-earth surfaces were
swept clean every day . They were used for sitting on while eating, and forsleeping on, so that was important. Nobody wanted to get old food on
themselves. Nobody wanted fleas.
 
 
When Jimmy was seven or eight or nine, Oryx was born. Where, exactly?
Hard to tell. Some distant, foreign place.
It w as a village  though, said O ryx. A village with trees all around and
fields nearby , or possibly rice paddies. The huts had thatch of some kind on
the roofs – palm  fronds? – altho ugh the best huts had roofs of tin. A village
in Indon esia, or  else Myanmar? Not those, said Oryx, though she couldn’ t
be sure. It wasn’ t India though. V ietnam? Jimmy guessed. Cambodia? Oryx
looked down at her hands, examining her nails. It didn’ t matter .
She couldn’ t remember the language she’d spoken as a child. She’d been
too y oung to retain it, that earliest language: the words had all been scoured
out of her head. But it wasn’ t the same as the language of the city to which
she’d fir st been taken, or not the same dialect, because she’d had to learn a
dif ferent way of speaking. She  did remember that: the clumsiness of the
words in her mouth, the feeling of being struck dumb.
This vill age was  a place where everyone was poor and there were many
children, said Oryx. She hersel f was quite little when she was sold. Her
mother h ad a number of children, among them two older sons who would
soon be able to  work in the fields, which was a good thing because the
father was sick. He coughed and coughed; this coughing punctuated her
earliest memories.
Something wrong with the lungs, Jimmy had guessed. Of cours e they all
probably smoke d like maniacs when they could get the cigarett es: smoking
dulled th e edge. (He’d congratulated himself on this insight.) The villagers
set the father ’ s illness down to bad water , bad fate, bad spirits.  Illness had
an element of shame to it; no one wanted to be contaminated by the illness
of anoth er . So the father of Ory x was pitied, but also blamed and shunned.
His wife tended him with silent resentment.
Bells we re rung, however . Prayers were said. Small images were burned
in the fire. But all of this was useless, because the father died. Everyone in
the v illage knew what would happen next, because if there was no man towork in the fields or in the rice paddies, then the raw materials of life had to
come from somewhere else.
Oryx had been a younger child, often pushed to the side, but suddenly
she was made m uch of and give n better food than usual, and a special blue
jacket, b ecause the other village women were helping out and they wanted
her to look prett y and healthy . Children who were ugly or deformed, or who
were no t bright or couldn’ t talk  very well – such children went for less, or
might n ot be sold at all. The v illage women might need to se ll their own
children one day , and if they helped out they would be able to count on such
help in return.
In the village it was not called “selling,” this transaction. The talk about it
implied apprenti ceship. The children were being trained to earn their living
in the wide worl d: this was the gloss put on it. Besides, if they s tayed where
they we re, what  was there for them to do? Especially the girls, said Oryx.
They would only get married a nd make more children, who would then
have to be sold in their turn. Sold, or thrown into the river , to float away to
the sea; because there was only so much food to go around.
 
 
One day  a man came to the vi llage. It was the same man who always
came. U sually he arrived in a car , bumping over the dirt track, b ut this time
there had been a  lot of rain and the road was too muddy . Each  village had
its own such man, who would make the dangerous journey from the city at
irregular intervals, although it was always known ahead of time that he was
on his way .
“What city?” asked Jimmy .
But Oryx only smiled. T alking about this made her hungry , she said. Why
didn’ t sweet Jimmy phone ou t for some pizza? Mushrooms, artichoke
hearts, anchovies, no pepperoni. “Y ou want some too?” she said.
“No,” said Jimmy . “Why won’ t you tell me?”
“Why d o you care?” said Oryx.  “I don’ t care. I never think abo ut it. It’ s
long ago now .” 
 
This man – said  Oryx, contemplating the pizza as if it were a jigsaw
puzzle, t hen picking of f the mus hrooms, which she liked to eat first – would
have two  other men with him, who were his servants and who carried rifles
to fend of f the bandits. He wore expensive clothes, and except for the mud
and dust  – everyone got muddy and dusty on the way to the v illage – he
was clea n and well-kempt. He had a watch, a shiny gold-coloured watch he
consulted often , pulling up his sleeve to display it; this watch was
reassuring, a badge of quality . Maybe the watch was real gold. There were
some who said it was.
This man wasn’ t regarded as a criminal of any sort, but as an ho nourable
businessman who didn’ t cheat, or not much, and who pa id in cash.
Therefore he was treated with respect and shown hospitality , because no
one in the village wanted to get on his bad side. What if he ceased to visit?
What if a family needed to sell a child and he would not buy it because he’d
been of fended on a previous visit? He was the villagers’ bank, their
insurance policy , their kind rich uncle, their only charm against bad luck.
And he had been needed more and more often, because the w eather had
become so strange and could no longer be predicted – too much rain or not
enough, too much wind, too much heat – and the crops were suf fering.
The man smiled a lot, greeted many of the village men by name. He
always gave a little speech, the same one every time. He wanted everyone
to be happy , he would say . He w anted satisfaction on both sides. He didn’ t
want any hard feelings. Hadn’ t  he bent over backwards for them, taking
children that were plain and stup id and a burden on his hands, ju st to oblige
them? If they ha d any criticism of the way he conducted af fairs, they should
tell him. But th ere was never any criticism, though there was  grumbling
behind his back: he never paid any more than he had to, it was said. He was
admired for this, however: it showed he was good at his trade, and the
children would be in competent hands.
Each tim e the gold-wristwatch man came to the village he would take
several c hildren away with him, to sell flowers to tourists on the  city streets.
The work was easy and the children would be well treated, he  assured themothers: he wasn’ t a low-down thug or a liar , he wasn’ t a pimp. They
would b e well fed and given a s afe place to sleep, they would be carefully
guarded, and they would be pa id a sum of money , which they could send
home to  their families, or not, whatever they chose. This sum would be a
percentage of their earnings mi nus the expense of their room and board.
(No money was ever sent to the village. Everyone knew it would  not be.) In
exchange for the child apprentice, he would give the fathers, or else the
widowed mothe rs, a good price , or what he said was a good price; and it
was a decent-enough price, cons idering what people were used t o. W ith this
money , the mothers who sold their children would be able to give the
remaining children a better chance in life. So they told one another .
 
 
Jimmy w as outr aged by this the first time he heard about it. That was in
the days of his outrage. Also in the days of his making a fool of himself
over anything concerning Oryx.
“Y ou do n’ t unde rstand,” said Oryx. She was still eating the pizza in bed;
with tha t she was having a Coke, and a side of fries. She’d finish ed with the
mushrooms and  now she was eating the artichoke hearts. She never ate the
crust. She said it  made her feel very rich to throw away food. “M any people
did it. It was the custom.”
“An asshole custom,” said Jimmy . He was sitting on a chair beside the
bed, watching her pink cat’ s tongue as she licked her fingers.
“Jimmy , you are bad, don’ t sw ear . Y ou want a pepperoni? Y ou didn’ t
order them but they put them on anyway . I guess they heard you wrong.”
“ Asshole  isn’ t swearing, it’ s only graphic description.”
“W ell, I  don’ t think you should say it.” She was eating the anchovies
now: she always saved them till last.
“I’d like to kill this guy .”
“What guy? Y ou want this Coke? I can’ t finish it.”
“The guy you just told me about.”“Oh Jimmy , you would like it b etter maybe if we all starved to death?”
said Oryx, with her small rippling laugh. This was the laugh he feared most
from her , because it disguised amused contempt. It chilled h im: a cold
breeze on a moonlit lake.
 
 
Of c ourse he’d marched his ou trage of f to Crake. He’d whammed the
furniture: those were his furniture-whamming days. What Crake had to say
was this: “Jimmy , look at it realistically . Y ou can’ t couple a minimum
access to food with an expanding population indefinitely . Homo sapiens
doesn’ t seem able to cut himself of f at the supply end. He’ s one of the few
species t hat doesn’ t limit reproduction in the face of dwindling resources. In
other words – and up to a point, of course – the less we eat, t he more we
fuck.”
“How do you account for that?” said Jimmy .
“Imagination,” s aid Crake. “Men can imagine their own deaths, they can
see them  comin g, and the mer e thought of impending death acts like an
aphrodisiac. A dog or a rabbit doesn’ t behave like that. T ake birds – in a
lean season they cut down on the eggs, or they won’ t mate at a ll. They put
their ener gy into staying alive themselves until times get better . But human
beings hope they can stick their souls into someone else, some new version
of themselves, and live on forever .”
“As a species we’re doomed by hope, then?”
“Y ou could call it hope. That, or desperation.”
“But we’re doomed without hope, as well,” said Jimmy .
“Only as individuals,” said Crake cheerfully .
“W ell, it sucks.”
“Jimmy , grow up.”
Crake wasn’ t the first person who’d ever said that to Jimmy .
 
 The wri stwatch man would stay overnight in the village with his two
servants and their guns, and would eat and then drink with the men. He
would hand out cigarettes, entire packs of them, in gold and silver paper
boxes with the c ellophane still on. In the morning he would look over the
children on of fer and ask some questions about them – had they been sick,
were they obedient? And he’d check their teeth. They had to have good
teeth, he  said, because they wou ld need to smile a lot. Then he would make
his selections, and the money  would change hands, and he’d say his
farewells, and there would be polite nods and bows all round. He would
take three or fo ur children with him, never more; that was the number he
could manage. This meant he could pick the best of the crop. He did the
same in the other villages in his territory . He was known for h is taste and
judgment.
Oryx said it must have been too bad for a child not to be chose n. Things
would be worse for it in the vil lage then, it would lose value, it would be
given less to eat. She herself had been chosen first of all.
Sometimes the mothers would c ry , and also the children, but the mothers
would tell the children that what they were doing was good, they were
helping their families, and they should go with the man and do  everything
he told them. The mothers said t hat after the children had worke d in the city
for a while and things were better , then they could come back to the village.
(No children ever came back.)
All o f th is was understood, and  if not condoned, at least pardoned. Still,
after the  man had left, the mothers who had sold their children felt empty
and sad.  They felt as if this act, done freely by themselves (no one had
forced them, no one had threatened them) had not been performed willingly .
They felt cheated as well, as if the price had been too low . Why  hadn’ t they
demanded more? And yet, the mothers told themselves, they’d had no
choice.
 
 
The mother of Oryx sold two of her children at the same time,  not only
because she was hard up. She thought the two might keep each other
company , look out for each oth er . The other child was a boy , a year olderthan Ory x. Few er boys were so ld than girls, but they were not therefore
more valued.
(Oryx took this double sale as evidence that her mother had loved her .
She had no images of this love. She could of fer no anecdotes. It was a belief
rather than a memory .)
The man said he  was doing Ory x’ s mother a special favour , as boys were
more trouble and did not obey ,  and ran away more often, and who would
pay him for his trouble then? Also this boy did not have a right a ttitude, that
much was clear at a glance, an d he had a blackened front tooth that gave
him a criminal expression. But a s he knew she needed the money he would
be generous, and would take the boy of f her hands.
 
 B i r d c a l l
Oryx said she couldn’ t remember the trip from the village to the city , but
she could remember some of the things that had happened. It was like
pictures hanging  on a wall, with around them the blank plaster . It was like
looking through other people’ s windows. It was like dreams.
The man with th e watch said his  name was Uncle En, and they must call
him that or there would be very big trouble.
“W as that En as in a name, or N as in an initial?” Jimmy asked.
“I don’ t know ,” said Oryx.
“Did you ever see it written?”
“Nobody in our village could read,” said Oryx. “Here, Jimmy . Open your
mouth. I give you the last piece.”
Remembering this, Snowman ca n almost taste it. The pizza, then Oryx’ s
fingers in his mouth.
Then the Coke can rolling onto the floor . Then joy , crushing his whole
body in its boa-constrictor grip.
Oh stolen secret picnics. Oh sw eet delight. Oh clear memory , oh pure
pain. Oh endless night.
 
 
This man – Oryx  continued, later that night, or on some other night – this
man said he was their uncle from now on. Now that they were out of sight
of the village he wasn’ t smiling so much. They must walk very  quickly , he
said, because the forest around t hem was full of wild animals with red eyes
and long sharp teeth, and if they ran in among the trees or walked too
slowly , these animals would come and tear them to pieces . Oryx was
frightened and wanted to hold  hands with her brother , but that wasn’ t
possible.
“W ere there tigers?” Jimmy asked.
Oryx shook her head for no. No tigers.“What were these animals then? ” Jimmy wanted to know . He thought he
might get some clues that way , as to the location. He could loo k at the list
of habitats, that might help.
“They didn’ t have names,” said Oryx, “but I knew what they were.”
 
 
At f irst they we nt single file alo ng the muddy road, walking on the side
where it  was higher , watching out for snakes. A gun-carrying man was at
the front, then Uncle En, then the brother , then the two other c hildren who
had also been sold – both girls, both older – and then Oryx. At the end came
the othe r gun man. They stopped  for a noon meal – cold rice, it was, packed
for t hem by the  villagers – and  then they walked some more. When they
came to a river one of the men with the guns carried Oryx acro ss. He said
she was so heavy he would have to drop her into the water and then the fish
would eat her , b ut that was a joke. He smelled of sweaty cloth and smoke,
and som e sort of perfume or gre ase that was in his hair . The wa ter came up
to his knees.
After that the sun was on a slant and got into her eyes – they must have
been going west then, thought Jimmy – and she was very tired.
As the sun got lower and lower the birds began singing and calling,
unseen, hidden in the branches and vines of the forest: raucous croaks and
whistles, and four clear sounds in a row , like a bell. These were the same
birds that always called like this as dusk approached, and at dawn just
before the sun came up, and Oryx was consoled by their s ounds. The
birdcalls were familiar , they wer e part of what she knew . She im agined that
one of them – the one like a bell – was her mother ’ s spirit, sen t out in the
shape of  a bird t o keep watch over her , and that it was saying Y ou will come
back .
In that village, she told him, some of the people could send th eir spirits
out like that ev en before they were dead. It was well known. Y ou could
learn ho w to do it, the old wom en could teach you, and that way you could
fly ever ywhere, you could see what was coming in the future, and send
messages, and appear in other people’ s dreams.The bird  called and called and then fell silent. Then the sun w ent down
abruptly and it w as dark. That n ight they slept in a shed. Possibly it was a
shed for  livestock; it had that smell. They had to pee in the bushes, all
together in a row , with one of the gun men standing guard. The men made a
fire outs ide and  laughed and ta lked, and smoke came in, but Oryx didn’ t
care because she went to sleep. Did they sleep on the ground, or in
hammocks, or on cots, asked Jimmy , but she said it wasn’ t im portant. Her
brother was there beside her . He’d never paid very much attention to her
before, but now he wanted to be close to her .
The nex t mornin g they walked some more and came to the pla ce where
Uncle E n’ s car had been left, under the protection of several men in a small
village: smaller than their own  village, and dirtier . W omen a nd children
peered a t them from the doorw ays but did not smile. One woman made a
sign against evil.
Uncle E n check ed to make sur e nothing was missing from th e car and
then he paid the men, and the children were told to get in. Oryx had never
been inside a ca r before and she  didn’ t like the smell. It wasn’ t a solarcar , it
was the gasoline  kind, and not new . One of the men drove, Unc le En beside
him; the other m an sat in the back with all four children jamme d in beside
him. Uncle En was in a bad temper and told the children not to ask any
questions. The road was bumpy  and it was hot inside the car . Oryx felt sick
and thought she would vomit, but then she dozed of f.
They must have driven for a lo ng time; they stopped when it was night
again. U ncle En  and the man in front went into a low building, some sort of
inn perh aps; the  other man stretched out on the front seat and soon began to
snore. T he children slept in the back of the car , as best they coul d. The back
doors were locked: they couldn’ t get out of the car without climbing over
the m an, and they were afraid to do that because he would thin k they were
trying to  run away . Somebody wet their pants during the night, Oryx could
smell it,  but it w asn’ t her . In the  morning they were all herded around to the
back of the building where there was an open latrine. A pig on the other
side of it watched them while they squatted.
After mo re hour s of bumpy driv ing they stopped where there w as a gate
across the road, with two soldiers. Uncle En told the soldiers that thechildren were his nieces and his  nephew: their mother had died  and he was
taking th em to live in his own h ouse, with his own family . He was smiling
again.
“Y ou have a lot of nieces and nephews,” said one of the soldiers,
grinning.
“That is my misfortune,” said Uncle En.
“And all their mothers die.”
“This is the sad truth.”
“W e are n’ t sure we should believe you,” said the other soldier , also
grinning.
“Here,” said Uncle En. He pulled Oryx out of the car . “W hat’ s my
name?” he said to her , putting his smiling face down close.
“Uncle En,” she said. The two soldiers laughed and Uncle En laughed
also. He patted Oryx on the sho ulder and told her to get back into the car ,
and shook hands with the soldie rs, putting his hand into his pocket first, and
then the  soldiers swung the gate open. Once the car was goin g along the
road again Uncle En gave Oryx  a hard candy , in the shape of a tiny lemon.
She sucked it fo r a while and then took it out to keep. She had n o pocket so
she held it in her sticky fingers. That night she comforted herself by licking
her own hand.
The chil dren cried at night, not  loudly . They cried to themselves. They
were fri ghtened: they didn’ t know where they were going, and they had
been taken away from what the y knew . Also, said Oryx, they had no more
love, supposing they’d had som e in the first place. But they h ad a money
value: they represented a cash profit to others. They must have sensed that –
sensed they were worth something.
Of c ourse (said Oryx), having a money value was no substitute for love.
Every c hild should have love, every person should have it. She herself
would r ather have had her mother ’ s love – the love she still continued to
believe in, the love that had followed her through the jungle in th e form of a
bird so she would not be too frightened or lonely – bu t love was
undependable, it came and then it went, so it was good to have a money
value, because then at least those who wanted to make a profit from youwould m ake sur e you were fed  enough and not damaged too much. Also
there we re many who had neither love nor a money value, and  having one
of these things was better than having nothing.
 
 R o s e s
The city  was a chaos, filled with people and cars and noise and bad
smells and a language that was hard to understand. The four new children
were shocked by it at first, as if  they’d been plunged into a cauldron of hot
water – as if the city was physically hurtful to them. Uncle En had
experience, however: he treated the new children as if they were cats, he
gave them time to get used to things. He put them into a small room in a
three-storey bui lding, on the third floor , with a barred window they could
look out  but not climb out, and then he led them outside gradu ally , a short
distance at first and an hour at a time. There were already five children
staying in the room, so it was c rowded; but there was enough space for a
thin ma ttress fo r each child, laid down at night so the entire floor was
covered with mattresses and children, then rolled up during the  day . These
mattresses were worn and stained, and smelled of urine; but rolling them up
neatly was the first thing the new children had to learn.
From the other , more seasoned  children they learned more th ings. The
first was that U ncle En would always be watching them, even when it
appeared they had been left in the city on their own. He would always know
where they were: all he had to d o was hold his shiny watch up to his ear and
it would tell hi m, because there was a little voice inside it that knew
everything. This  was reassuring, as nobody else would be allowed to harm
them. O n the other hand, Unc le En would see if you didn’ t work hard
enough or tried to run away , or if you kept for yourself any of  the money
you got from the tourists. Then you would be punished. Uncle En’ s men
would b eat you and then you would have bruises. They might burn you as
well. Some of the children claim ed to have endured these punis hments, and
were pro ud of it: they had scar s. If you tried these forbidden things often
enough – laziness, theft, running away – you would be sold, to someone
much worse – it was said – than Uncle En. Or else you would be killed and
tossed on a rubbish heap, and nobody would care because no body would
know who you were.
Oryx sa id that Uncle En reall y knew his business, because children
would believe other children about punishments more readily than they
would believe adults. Adults threatened to do things they nev er did, butchildren told what would happe n. Or what they were afraid would happen.
Or what had happened already , to them or to other children they’d known.
The wee k after Oryx and her br other arrived in the mattress ro om, three
of the older children were taken away . They were going to another country ,
said Un cle En. This country w as called San Francisco. W as it because
they’d been bad? No, said Uncle En, it was a reward for being good. All
who were obedient and dilige nt might go there some day . There was
nowhere Oryx wanted to go except home, but “home” was becoming hazy
in her mind. She could still hear her mother ’ s spirit calling Y ou will come
back , b ut that voice was becoming fainter and more indistinct. It was no
longer like a bell, it was like a whisper . It was a question now , rather than a
statement; a question with no answer .
 
 
Oryx an d her brother and the ot her two newcomers were taken to watch
the more  experienced children selling flowers. The flowers were roses, red
and white and pink; they were collected at the flower market early in the
morning. The thorns had been removed from the stems so the roses could
be passed from hand to hand without pricking anyone. Y ou had to loiter
around the entranceways to the best hotels – the banks where foreign
money could be changed and the expensive shops were good locations too –
and you  had to keep an eye out for policemen. If a policeman came near or
stared h ard at you, you should w alk the other way quickly . Sel ling flowers
to th e to urists was not allowed unless you had an of ficial perm it, and such
permits were too expensive. But there was nothing to worry about, said
Uncle En: the police knew all about it, only they had to appea r as if they
didn’ t know .
When you saw a foreigner , especially one with a foreign woman beside
him, you should approach and h old up the roses, and you should smile. Y ou
should not stare or laugh at the ir strange foreign hair and wa ter -coloured
eyes. If they took a flower and  asked how much, you should  smile even
more and hold out your hand. If they spoke to you, asking questions, you
should l ook as if you didn’ t un derstand. That part was easy en ough. They
would al ways give you more – sometimes much more – than the flower was
worth.The mo ney had to be put into a little bag hanging inside your clothes;
that was  to protect against pick pockets and random snatching from street
urchins, those unlucky ones w ithout an Uncle En to look after them. If
anyone – especially any man – tried to take you by the hand and lead you
of f somewhere, you should pull your hand away . If they held on too tight
you should sit down. That wou ld be a signal, and one of Uncl e En’ s men
would come, or Uncle En himself. Y ou should never get into a car or go
into a hotel. If a man asked you to do that, you should tell Uncle  En as soon
as possible.
Oryx ha d been given a new name by Uncle En. All the children  got new
names from him. They were told to for get their old names, and soon they
did. Ory x was now SuSu. She w as good at selling roses. She was so small
and frag ile, her features so clea r and pure. She was given a dre ss that was
too big for her , and in it she looked like an angelic doll. The other children
petted h er , becau se she was the littlest one. They took turns sleeping beside
her at night; she was passed from one set of arms to another .
Who could resist her? Not many of the foreigners. Her smile was perfect
– not cocky or aggressive, but hesitant, shy , taking nothing for granted. It
was a smile with no ill will in it: it contained no resentment, no  envy , only
the promise of heartfelt gratitude. “Adorable,” the foreign ladies would
murmur , and the men with them  would buy a rose and hand it  to the lady ,
and that way the men would become adorable too; and Oryx wo uld slip the
coins in to the bag down the front of her dress and feel safe fo r one more
day , because she had sold her quota.
Not so her brother . He had no luck. He didn’ t want to sell flow ers like a
girl, and he hated smiling; and when he did smile, the ef fect w as not good
because of his blackened tooth. So Oryx would take some of his leftover
roses and try to sell them for h im. Uncle En didn’ t mind at first – money
was money – bu t then he said Oryx shouldn’ t be seen too much  in the same
locations because it wouldn’ t do for people to become tired of her .
Something else would have to be found for the brother – some other
occupation. He would have to be sold elsewhere. The older children in the
room sh ook the ir heads: the brother would be sold to a pimp, they said; a
pimp for hairy w hite foreign men or bearded brown men or fat yellow men,any kind  of men who liked little boys. They described in detail  what these
men wo uld do; they laughed ab out it. He would be a melon-bum boy , they
said: that’ s what boys like him were called. Firm and round on the outside,
soft and sweet o n the inside; a nice melon bum, for anyone who paid. Either
that or he would be put to work  as a messenger , sent from street to street,
doing errands for gamblers, an d that was hard work and very dangerous,
because the rival gamblers woul d kill you. Or he could be a messenger and
a melon boy , both. That was the most likely thing.
Oryx sa w her brother ’ s face d arken and grow hard, and she wasn’ t
surprised when he ran away; and whether he was ever caught and punished
Oryx ne ver knew . Nor did she ask, because asking – she had now found out
– would do no good.
 
 
One day a man did take Oryx b y the hand and say she should c ome into
the h otel with h im. She gave h im her shy smile, and looked up sideways
and said nothing, and pulled her hand away and told Uncle En afterwards.
Then Un cle En said a surprising  thing. If the man asked again, he said, she
was to go into the hotel with him. He would want to take her up to his
room, and she must go with him. She should do whatever the man asked,
but she shouldn’ t worry , because Uncle En would be watching and would
come to get her . Nothing bad would happen to her .
“W ill I be a m elon?” she asked. “A melon-bum girl?” and U ncle En
laughed and said where did she pick up that word. But no, he said. That was
not what would happen.
Next day the m an appeared and asked Oryx if she would l ike some
money , a lot mo re money than she could make by selling roses. He was a
long white hairy man with a thick accent, but she could make out the words.
This tim e Oryx went with him. He held her hand and they went up in an
elevator – this was the frightening part, a tiny room with doo rs that shut,
and when the doors opened you were in a dif ferent place, and Uncle En
hadn’ t explained about that. She could feel her heart thumping. “Don’ t be
afraid,” said the man, thinking she was afraid of him. But it w as the other
way around, he was afraid of her , because his hand had a tremor . Heunlocked a door with a key and they went in, and he locked the door behind
them, and they were in a mauve-and-gold-coloured room with a giant bed in
it, a bed for giants, and the man asked Oryx to take of f her dress.
Oryx was obedient and did as she was told. She had a general idea of
what else the ma n might want –  the other children already knew about such
things an d discu ssed them freely , and laughed about them. Peop le paid a lot
of money for th e kinds of things this man wanted, and there w ere special
places i n the city for men like him to go; but some wouldn’ t go there
because it was too public and they were ashamed, and they foolishly wanted
to arrange things for themselves, and this man was one of that kind. So
Oryx kn ew the man would now  take of f his own clothes, or som e of them,
and he did, and seemed pleased  when she stared at his penis, which was
long and hairy l ike himself, with a bend in it like a little elbow . Then he
kneeled down so he was on her level, with his face right next to hers.
What d id this face look like?  Oryx couldn’ t remember . She could
remember the singularity of his penis but not the singularity of his face. “It
was like no face,” she said. “It was all soft, like a dumpling. There was a
big nose  on it, a carrot nose. A long white penis nose.” S he laughed,
holding her two hands over her mouth. “Not like your nose, J immy ,” she
added in  case he felt self-consc ious. “Y our nose is beautiful. It is a sweet
nose, believe me.”
 
 
“I won’ t  hurt you,” said the man. His accent was so ridiculous that Oryx
wanted to giggle, but she knew  that would be wrong. She smiled her shy
smile, and the man took hold of one of her hands and placed it on himself.
He did this gently enough, but at the same time he seemed an gry . Angry ,
and in a hurry .
That wa s when Uncle En plunged suddenly into the room – how? He
must have had a key , he must have been given a key by som eone at the
hotel. He picked Oryx up and h ugged her and called her his little treasure,
and yell ed at the man, who see med very frightened and tried to scramble
into his clothes. He got caught in his trousers and hopped around on one
foot whi le tryin g to explain som ething with his bad accent, an d Oryx feltbad for him. Then the man gave money to Uncle En, a lot of money , all the
money i n his wallet, and Uncle En went out of the room carryin g Oryx like
a precio us vase and still mutter ing and scowling. But out on the street he
laughed, and made jokes about  the man hopping around in his snarled-up
trousers, and told Oryx she was  a good girl and wouldn’ t she like to play
this game again?
So that became  her game. She felt a little sorry for the men:  although
Uncle E n said they deserved wh at happened to them and they were lucky he
never called the police, she somewhat regretted her part. But at the same
time she enjoyed it. It made her feel strong to know that the men thought
she was helpless but she was not. It was they who were helples s, they who
would so on have  to stammer apo logies in their silly accents and  hop around
on one foot in their luxurious hotel rooms, trapped in their own pant legs
with the ir bums sticking out, smooth bums and hairy bum s, bums of
dif ferent sizes and colours, whil e Uncle En berated them. From time to time
they would cry . As for the mone y , they emptied their pockets, th ey threw all
the mon ey they had at Uncle En , they thanked him for taking it. They didn’ t
want to spend a ny time in jail,  not in that city , where the jails were not
hotels an d it took a very long tim e for char ges to be laid and for  trials to be
held. Th ey want ed to get into taxis, as soon as they could, and climb onto
big airplanes, and fly away through the sky .
“Little S uSu,” U ncle En would say , as he set Oryx down on the street
outside the hotel. “Y ou are a smart girl! I wish I could marry you. W ould
you like that?”
This was as close to love as Oryx could get right then, so she felt happy .
But wha t was the right answer , yes or no? She knew it was not a serious
question but a joke: she was only five, or six, or seven, so she couldn’ t get
married. Anywa y the other child ren said that Uncle En had a gro wn-up wife
who live d in a house elsewhere,  and he had other children as w ell. His real
children. They went to school.
“Can I listen to your watch?” said Oryx with her shy smile. Instead of ,
was what she meant. Instead of marrying you, instea d of answering your
question, instead of being your r eal child.  And  he  laughed  some more, an d
he did let her listen to his watch, but she didn’ t hear any little voice inside. 
 P i x i e l a n d  J a z z
One day  a dif ferent man came, one they’d never seen before – a tall thin
man, taller than Uncle En, with ill-fitting clothes and a pock-marked face –
and said that all of them would have to come with him. Uncle En had sold
his f lower business, this man sa id; the flowers, and the flower -sellers, and
everything else. He’d gone away , he’d moved to a dif ferent city . So this tall
man was the boss now .
A ye ar o r so later , Oryx was told – by a girl who’d been with her the first
weeks in  the room with the mattresses, and had turned up again in her new
life, her life of m ovie-making – that this wasn’ t the real story . Th e real story
was that  Uncle En had been fou nd floating in one of the city’ s canals with
his throat cut.
This gir l had seen him. No, tha t was wrong – she hadn’ t seen him, but
she knew somebody who had. There was no doubt about who  it was. His
stomach was puf fed up like a pi llow , his face was bloated, but it was Uncle
En all right. He had no clothes o n – someone must have taken them. Maybe
someone else, not the one who’d cut his throat, or maybe the same one,
because what use did a corpse have for good clothes like his? N o watch on
him eith er . “No money ,” the girl had said, and she’d laughed. “ No pockets,
so no money!”
 
 
“There w ere canals in this city? ” Jimmy asked. He thought maybe that
would give him a clue as to which city it had been. In thos e days he’d
wanted to know whatever it was possible to know , about O ryx, about
anywhere she’d been. He’d wanted to track down and personally injure
anyone who had ever done harm to her or made her unhappy . He’d tortured
himself with painful knowledge: every white-hot factoid he could collect
he’d sho ve up under his fingern ails. The more it hurt, the more – he was
convinced – he loved her .
“Oh yes , there were canals,” Oryx said. “The farmers used them, and the
flower -growers, to get to the markets. They tied up their boats and sold
what they had ri ght there, right a t the quays. That was a pretty sight, from a
distance. So many flowers.” She looked at him: she could often tell what hewas thin king. “But a lot of cities have canals,” she said. “And rivers. The
rivers ar e so useful, for the garb age and the dead people and the babies that
get throw n away , and the shit.” Although she didn’ t like it when he swore,
she sometimes liked to say what she called bad wor ds  herself, because it
shocked him. She had a lar ge supply of bad words once she  got going.
“Don’ t worry so much, Jimmy ,”  she added more gently . “It was a long time
ago.” More often than not she a cted as if she wanted to protect him, from
the imag e of herself – herself in the past. She liked to keep onl y the bright
side of herself turned towards him. She liked to shine.
 
 
So Uncle En had ended up in t he canal. He’d been unlucky . He hadn’ t
paid of f the rig ht people, or he  hadn’ t paid them of f enough. Or maybe
they’d tr ied to buy his business and the price was too low and he wouldn’ t
do it . Or his own men had sold him out. There were many things that could
have happened to him. Or mayb e it was nothing planned – just an accident,
a ra ndom killing, just a thief. Uncle En had been careless, he ’d gone out
walking by himself. Though he wasn’ t a careless man.
“I cried when I heard about it,” said Oryx. “Poor Uncle En.”
“Why ar e you defending him?” Jimmy asked. “He was vermin,  he was a
cockroach!”
“He liked me.”
“He liked the money!”
“Of course, Jimmy ,” said Oryx.  “Everyone likes that. But he could have
done much worse things to me, and he didn’ t do them. I cried when I heard
he was dead. I cried and cried.”
“What worse things? What much worse?”
“Jimmy , you worry too much.”
 
 
The chil dren we re herded out o f the room with the grey mattresses, and
Oryx ne ver saw  it again. She never saw most of the other children again.
They were divided up, and one went this way and one that. Oryx was soldto a man  who made movies. She was the only one of them tha t went with
the movie man. He told her she was a pretty little girl and asked how old
she was,  but she didn’ t know th e answer to that. He asked her w ouldn’ t she
like to be in a movie. She’d nev er seen a movie so she didn’ t kn ow whether
she would like i t or not; but it sounded like an of fer of a treat,  so she said
yes. By this tim e she was goo d at knowing when yes  w as the expected
answer .
The man drove her in a car with  some other girls, three or four , girls she
didn’ t kn ow . Th ey stayed overnight at a house, a big house. It was a house
for r ich people; it had a high w all around it with broken glass  and barbed
wire on the top, and they went in through a gate. Inside, it had a rich smell.
“What d o you mean, a rich sme ll?” Jimmy asked, but Oryx cou ldn’ t say .
Rich  was just a thing  you learned to tell. The house smelled like the better
hotels she’d been in: many d if ferent foods cooking, wooden furniture,
polishes and soap, all those smells mixed in. There must have be en flowers,
flowering trees or bushes nearby , because that was some of the smell. There
were car pets on the floor but the children didn’ t walk on them;  the carpets
were in a big room, and they went past the open door and looked in and saw
them. They were blue and pink and red, such beauty .
The room they were put in was next to the kitchen. Perhaps it was a
storeroom, or it had been one: there was the smell of rice and of the bags it
was packed in, though no rice was in that room then. They were fed – better
food than usual, said Oryx, ther e was chicken in it – and told not to make
any nois e. Then they were locked in. There were dogs at that  house; you
could hear them outside in the yard, barking.
The next day some of them went in a truck, in the back of a truck. There
were tw o other children, both g irls, both of them small like Oryx. One of
them had just co me from a villa ge and missed her people there, and cried a
lot, silen tly , hidi ng her face. They were lifted up into the back of the truck
and locked in, a nd it was dark and hot and they got thirsty , and when they
had to pee they had to do it in the truck because there was no stopping.
There was a little window though, up high, so some air got in.
 
 It was only a cou ple of hours, bu t it seemed like more because of the heat
and the darkness. When they got to where they were going they were
handed over to another man, a dif ferent one, and the truck drove of f.
“W as there any writing on it? The truck?” asked Jimmy , sleuthing.
“Y es. It was red writing.”
“What did it say?”
“How would I know?” said Oryx reproachfully .
Jimmy felt foolish. “W as there a picture, then?”
“Y es. There was a picture,” said Oryx after a moment.
“A picture of what?”
Oryx thought. “It was a parrot. A red parrot.”
“Flying, or standing?”
“Jimmy , you are too strange!”
Jimmy held on to it, this red parrot. He kept it in mind. Sometimes it
would appear to him in reveries, char ged with mystery and hidden
significance, a symbol free of all contexts. It must have been a brand name,
a logo. He searched the Internet for Parrot, Parrot Brand, Parrot Inc.,
Redparrot. He found Alex the cork-nut parrot who’d said I’m going away
now , but  that was no help to him because Alex was the wrong col our . He
wanted the red parrot to be a link between the story Oryx had t old him and
the so-called real world. He wan ted to be walking along a street or trolling
through the W eb, and eureka, th ere it would be, the red parrot, t he code, the
password, and then many things would become clear .
 
 
The buil ding wh ere the movies were made was in a dif ferent city , or it
might have been in a dif ferent part of the same city , because t he city was
very big , said Oryx. The room she stayed in with the other girls was in that
building too. They almost neve r went outside, except up onto the flat roof
sometimes when the movie was to be made up there. Some of the men who
came to the building wanted to be outside while the movie was being
filmed. They wanted to be seen, and at the same time they wanted to behidden: the roof had a wall around it. “Maybe they wanted God to see
them,” s aid Ory x. “What do yo u think, Jimmy? They were sho wing of f to
God? I think so.”
These men all had ideas about what should be in their movie. They
wanted things in the backgroun d, chairs or trees, or they wanted ropes or
screaming, or shoes. Sometimes  they would say , Just do it, I’m paying for
it , or thing s like that, because everything in these movies had a price. Every
hair bow , every flower , every object, every gesture. If the men thought up
something new , there would ha ve to be a discussion about how much that
new thing ought to cost.
“So I learned about life,” said Oryx.
“Learned what? ” said Jimmy . He shouldn’ t have had the pizza, and the
weed they’d smoked on top of that. He was feeling a little sick.
“That everything has a price.”
“Not eve rything. That can’ t be true. Y ou can’ t buy time. Y ou ca n’ t buy . .
.” He wanted to say love , but hesitated. It was too soppy .
“Y ou can’ t buy it, but it has a price,” said Oryx. “Everything has a price.”
“Not me,” said Jimmy , trying to joke. “I don’ t have a price.”
W rong, as usual.
 
 
Being in  a movie, said Oryx, was doing what you were told. If they
wanted you to smile then you had to smile, if they wanted you to cry you
had to do that to o. Whatever it was, you had to do it, and you did it because
you were afraid not to. Y ou did what they told you to do to the men who
came, and then sometimes those men did things to you. That was movies.
“What sort of things?” said Snowman.
“Y ou know ,” said Oryx. “Y ou saw . Y ou have the picture of it.”
“I only saw that one,” said Snowman. “Only the one, with you in.”
“I b et you saw more with me in. Y ou don’ t remember . I could look
dif ferent, I could wear dif ferent  clothes and wigs, I could be so meone else,do other things.”
“Like what else? What else did they make you do?”
“They were all the same, those  movies,” said Oryx. She’d washed her
hands, s he was painting her nails now , her delicate oval nails, so perfectly
shaped. Peach-coloured, to mat ch the flowered wrapper she was wearing.
Not a smudge on her . Later on she would do her toes.
 
 
It was less borin g for the child ren to make the movies than to do what
they did the rest of the time, which was nothing much. They watched
cartoons on the old DVD in one  of the rooms, mice and birds b eing chased
around b y other  animals that co uld never catch them; or they brushed and
braided one another ’ s hair , or t hey ate and slept. Sometimes o ther people
came to use the space, to make dif ferent kinds of movies. Grown-up women
came, women with breasts, and grown-up men – actors. The children could
watch them making those movies if they didn’ t get in the way . Though
sometimes the actors objected b ecause the little girls would gig gle at their
penises – so big , and then some times, all of a sudden, so small – and then
the children had to go back into their room.
They washed a lot – that was  important. They took showers with a
bucket. They were supposed to be pure-looking. On a bad day when there
was no business they would get tired and restless, and then they would
ar gue an d fight. Sometimes they ’d be given a toke or a drink to calm them
down – beer , maybe – but no ha rd drugs, those would shrivel th em up; and
they we ren’ t all owed to smoke. The man in char ge – the big man, not the
man wit h the camera – said the y shouldn’ t smoke because it w ould make
their teeth brown. They did sm oke sometimes anyway , becau se the man
with the camera might give them a cigarette to share.
The man with th e camera was w hite, and his name was Jack. He was the
one they mostly saw . He had hair like frayed rope and he smelled too
strong, b ecause he was a meat- eater . He ate so much meat! He didn’ t like
fish. He didn’ t like rice either , but he liked noodles. Noodles with lots of
meat.Jack said  that where he came fro m the movies were bigger and better , the
best in the world. He kept saying he wanted to go home. He said it was only
pure dum b chan ce he wasn’ t de ad – that this fucking country hadn’ t killed
him with  its lousy food. He said he’d almost died from some disease he’d
got f rom the water and the only thing that had saved him was getting really ,
really pissed, because alcohol killed germs. Then he had to explain to them
about germs. The little girls laughed about the germs, because they didn’ t
believe in them; but they believ ed about the disease, because they’d seen
that happen. Spirits caused it, everyone knew that. Spirits an d bad luck.
Jack had not said the right prayers.
Jack said he would get sick more often from the rotten food and water ,
only he had a re ally strong stomach. He said you needed a strong stomach
in th is business. He said the videocam was antique-roadshow junk and the
lights w ere poor  so no wonder everything looked like cheap shit. He said he
wished he had a  million dollars but he’d pissed all his money away . He said
he could n’ t hold  on to money , it slid of f him like water of f a greased whore.
“Don’ t be like me when you grow up,” he would say . And the  girls would
laugh, because whatever else happened to them they would ne ver be like
him, a rope-haired clownish giant with a cock like a wrinkly old carrot.
Oryx sai d she had many chance s to see that old carrot up close, because
Jack wa nted to do movie things  with her when there were no movies. Then
he would be sad and tell her he was sorry . That was puzzling.
“Y ou did it for nothing?” said Jimmy . “I thought you said everything has
a price.”  He didn’ t feel he’d w on the ar gument about money , he wanted
another turn.
Oryx paused, lifting the nail-p olish brush. She looked at her  hand. “I
traded him,” she said.
“T raded him for what?” said Jimmy . “What did that pathetic prick of a
loser have to of fer?”
“Why d o you think he is bad?” said Oryx. “He never did anything with
me that you don’ t do. Not nearly so many things!”
“I do n’ t do them  against your will,” said Jimmy . “Anyway you’ re grown
up now .”Oryx laughed. “What is my will ?” she said. Then she must have seen his
pained look, so she stopped laughing. “He taught me to read,” she said
quietly . “T o speak English, and to read English words. T alkin g first, then
reading, not so good at first, and I still don’ t talk so good but you always
have to start somewhere, don’ t you think so, Jimmy?”
“Y ou talk perfectly ,” said Jimmy .
“Y ou don’ t need to tell lies to m e. So that is how . It took a long time, but
he was very patient. He had one book, I don’ t know where he got it but it
was a book for children. It had a girl in it with long braids, and stockings –
that was a hard word, stockings  – who jumped around and did whatever she
liked. So this is what we read. It was a good trade, because, Jimmy , if I
hadn’ t done it I couldn’ t be talking to you, no?”
“Done what?” said Jimmy . He couldn’ t stand it. If he had this Jack, this
piece of garbage, in the room right now he’d wring his neck li ke a wormy
old sock. “What did you do for him? Y ou sucked him of f?”
“Crake is right,” said Oryx coldly . “Y ou do not have an elegant mind.”
Elegant mind  w as just mathtalk, that patronizing jar gon the math nerds
used, bu t it hurt Jimmy anyway .  No. What hurt was the thought of Oryx and
Crake discussing him that way , behind his back.
“I’m sor ry ,” he said. He ought to know better than to speak so bluntly to
her .
“Now m aybe I wouldn’ t do it, but I was a child then,” said Oryx more
softly . “Why are you so angry?”
“I don’ t buy it,”  said Jimmy . W here was her rage, how far down was it
buried, what did he have to do to dig it up?
“Y ou don’ t buy what?”
“Y our whole fucking story . All this sweetness and acceptance and crap.”
“If you don’ t w ant to buy th at, Jimmy ,” said Oryx, looking at him
tenderly , “what is it that you would like to buy instead?”
 
 Jack had  a name for the buildin g where the movies went on. He called it
Pixieland. None  of the children knew what that meant – Pixieland  –
because it was an English word and an English idea, and Ja ck couldn’ t
explain it. “All right, pixies, rise and shine,” he’d say . “Candy time!” He
brought candies for them as a treat, sometimes. “W ant a can dy , candy?”
he’d say . That also was a joke, but they didn’ t know what it meant either .
He let them see the movies of themselves if he felt like it, or if he’d just
been doing drugs. They could tell when he’d been shooting or snorting,
because he was happier then. H e liked to play pop music while they were
working, somet hing with a bounce. Upbeat, he called it. El vis Presley ,
things like that. He said he like d the golden oldies, from back when songs
had wor ds. “Call me sentimental,” he said, causing puzzlement. He liked
Frank Si natra too, and Doris Da y: Oryx knew all the words to “ Love Me or
Leave Me” before she had any idea what they meant. “Sing us some
pixieland jazz,” Jack would say , and so that was what Oryx would sing. He
was always pleased.
“What w as this guy’ s name?” sa id Jimmy . What a jerk, this Jack. Jack the
jerk, the jerkof f. Name-calling helped, thought Jimmy . He’d like to twist the
guy’ s head of f.
“His name was Jack. I told you . He told us a poem about it, in English.
Jack be nimble, Jack be quick, Jack has got a big candlestick. ”
“I mean his other name.”
“He didn’ t have another name.”
 
 
W orking  was what Jack called what they did. W orking girls , he called
them. He used to  say , Whistle while you work . He  used to say , W ork har der .
He used to say , Put some jazz into it . He used to say , Act like you mean it, or
you want to get hurt?  He use d to say , Come on, sex midgets, you can do
better . He used to say , Y ou’r e only young once .
“That’ s all,” said Oryx.
“What do you mean, that’ s all?”
“That’ s all there was,” she said. “That’ s all there was to it.”“What about, did they ever . . .”
“Did they ever what?”
“They didn’ t. Not when you were that young. They couldn’ t have.”
“Please, Jimmy , tell me what you are asking.” Oh, very cool. He wanted
to shake her .
“Did they rape you?” He could barely squeeze it out. What answer was
he expecting, what did he want?
“Why do you w ant to talk about ugly things?” she said. Her v oice was
silvery , like a m usic box. She w aved one hand in the air to dr y the nails.
“W e should think only beautiful things, as much as we can. There is so
much beautiful in the world if you look around. Y ou are looking only at the
dirt under your feet, Jimmy . It’ s not good for you.”
She would never tell him. Why  did this drive him so crazy? “It wasn’ t
real sex, was it?” he asked. “In the movies. It was only acting. W asn’ t it?”
“But Jimmy , you should know . All sex is real.”
 
 S v e l t a n a
Snowman opens his eyes, shuts them, opens them, keeps them open. He’ s
had a terrible nig ht. He doesn’ t know which is worse, a past he can’ t regain
or a present that  will destroy hi m if he looks at it too clearly . Then there’ s
the future. Sheer vertigo.
The sun is above the horizon, lifting steadily as if on a pulley ; flattish
clouds, p ink and  purple on top and golden underneath, stand still in the sky
around i t. The waves are waving, up down up down. The thou ght of them
makes him queasy . He’ s violently thirsty , and he has a headache and a
hollow cottony space between  his ears. It takes him some moments to
register the fact that he has a hangover .
“It’ s your own fault,” he tells himself. He behaved foolishly the night
before: he guzzled, he yelled, he gibbered, he indulged in pointless
repinings. Once  he wouldn’ t ha ve had a hangover after so little booze, but
he’ s out of practice now , and out of shape.
At l east he didn’ t fall out of the tree. “T omorrow is another  day ,” he
declaims to the pink and purple clouds. But if tomorrow is a nother day ,
what’ s today? The same day as it always is, except that he feels as if he has
tongue fur all over his body .
 
 
A long scrawl of birds unwinds from the empty towers – gulls, egrets,
herons, heading of f to fish along the shore. A mile or so to the south, a salt
marsh is forming on a one-time landfill dotted with semi-flooded
townhouses. That’ s where all the birds are going: minnow city . He watches
them with resentment: everything is fine with them, not a care i n the world.
Eat, fuck, poop, screech, that’ s all they do. In a former life he might have
snuck up on th em, studied them through binoculars, wonder ing at their
grace. N o, he never would have done that, it hadn’ t been his style. Some
grade-school tea cher , a nature snoop – Sally Whatshername? – herding
them alo ng on what she called field trips. The Compound golf course and
lily pond s had been their huntin g grounds. Look! See the ni ce ducks? Those
ar e called mallar ds!  Sno wman had found birds ted ious even then, but hewouldn’ t have wished to harm them. Whereas right now he yearns for a big
slingshot.
He c limbs down from the tree, more carefully than usual: he’ s still a bit
dizzy . He checks his baseball cap, dumps out a butterfly – attracted by the
salt, no doubt – and pisses on the grasshoppers, as usual. I h ave a daily
routine, he thinks. Routines are good. His entire head is becoming one big
stash of obsolete fridge magnets.
Then he opens up his ceme nt-block cache, puts on his one-eyed
sunglasses, drinks water from a stored beer bottle. If only he had  a real beer ,
or an aspirin, or more Scotch.
“Hair of  the dog,” he says to th e beer bottle. He mustn’ t drink too much
water at a time, he’ll throw up. He pours the rest of the water over his head,
gets him self a second bottle, an d sits down with his back against the tree,
waiting for his s tomach to settle. He wishes he had something  to read. T o
read, to  view , to hear , to study , to compile. Rag ends of la nguage are
floating in his head: mephitic, metr onome, mastitis, metatarsal, maudlin .
“I used to be eru dite,” he says out loud. Erudite . A hopeless word. What
are all those things he once thought he knew , and where have they gone?
 
 
After a while he finds he’ s h ungry . What’ s in the cache, foodwise?
Shouldn’ t there be a mango? No , that was yesterday . All that’ s left of it is a
sticky ant-cover ed plastic bag. There’ s the chocolate ener gy Joltbar , but he
doesn’ t feel up to that, so he op ens the can of Sveltana No-M eat Cocktail
Sausages with his rusty can ope ner . He could use a better one o f those. The
sausages are a d iet brand, beige and unpleasantly soft – babies’ turds, he
thinks – but he manages to get them down. Sveltanas are always better if
you don’ t look.
They’re protein, but they’re not enough for him. Not enough calories. He
drinks th e warm, bland sausage juice, which – he tells himself –  must surely
be full of vitam ins. Or minerals, at least. Or something. He used to know .
What’ s happening to his mind? He has a vision of the top of his neck,
opening up into his head like a  bathroom drain. Fragments of words are
swirling down it, in a grey liquid he realizes is his dissolving brain.T ime to face rea lity . Crudely put, he’ s slowly starving to death. A fish a
week is all he can depend on, and the people take that literally: it can be a
decent-sized fish  or a very small one, all spikes and bones. He knows that if
he d oesn’ t balance out the protein with starches and that other stuf f –
carbohydrates, o r are those the same as starches? – he’ll start di ssolving his
own fat, what’ s left of it, and after that his own muscles. The heart is a
muscle. He pictures his heart, shrivelling up until it’ s no bigger than a
walnut.
At first he’d been able to get fruit, not only from the cans of it he’d been
able to scrounge , but also from the deserted arboretum an hour ’ s  walk to the
north. H e’d known how to find it, he’d had a map then, but it’ s long gone,
blown a way in a thunderstorm.  Fruits of the W orld was the s ection he’d
headed f or . Ther e’d been some bananas ripening in the T ropicals area, and
several other things, round, green, and knobbly , that he hadn’ t wanted to eat
because they might have been poisonous. There’d been some gr apes too, on
a trellis , in the T emperate zone. The solar air conditionin g was still
functioning, inside the greenho use, though one of the panes was broken.
There’d been some apricots as well, espaliered against a wall; though only a
few , browning where the wasps had eaten into them and beginning to rot.
He’d dev oured them anyway; also some lemons. They’d been ve ry sour , but
he’d for ced himself to drink the juice: he was familiar with scur vy from old
seafaring movies. Bleeding gums, teeth coming out in handfuls. That hasn’ t
happened to him yet.
Fruits of the W o rld is cleaned o ut now . How long till more fruits of the
world appear and ripen? He has no clue. There ought to be some wild
berries. He’ll ask the kids about that, the next time they co me poking
around: they’ll know about ber ries. But though he can hear them farther
down the beach, laughing and c alling to one another , they don’ t  seem to be
coming his way this morning. Maybe they’re getting bored with him, tired
of pestering him for answers he won’ t give or that make no sense to them.
Maybe h e’ s old hat, an outworn novelty , a mangy toy . Maybe he’ s lost his
charisma, like some shoddy , balding pop star of yesteryear . H e ought to
welcome the possibility of being left alone, but he finds the thought
dispiriting.If he had a boat he might row  out to the tower blocks, climb up, rob
nests, steal some eggs, if he had  a ladder . No, bad idea: the towers are too
unstable, even in the months he’ s been here several of them have come
crashing down. He could walk to the area of the bungalows and trailers,
hunt for  rats, barbecue them over the glowing coals. It’ s something to
consider . Or he could try going as far as the closest Module, better pickings
than the trailers because the goodies there had been thicker on the ground.
Or o ne of the retirement colonies, the gated communities, something like
that. But he has no maps any more and he can’ t risk getting lost, wandering
around at dusk with no cover a nd no suitable tree. The wolvog s would be
after him for sure.
He coul d trap a pigoon, bludge on it to death, butcher it in secret. He’d
have to hide the mess: he has a notion that the sight of full frontal blood and
guts mig ht take him over the th reshold as far as the Children of Crake are
concerned. But a pigoon feast would do him a world of good. Pigoons are
fat, a nd fat is a carbohydrate. Or is it? He searches his mind for some lesson
or lo ng-lost chart that would te ll him: he knew that stuf f once, but it’ s no
use, the file folders are empty .
“Bring h ome th e bacon,” he sa ys. He can almost smell it, that bacon,
frying in  a pan, with an egg, to be served up with toast and a cu p of cof fee .
. . Cr eam with that?  wh ispers a woman’ s voice. So me naughty , nameless
waitress, out of a white-aprons-and-feather -dusters porno farce. He finds
himself salivating.
Fat isn’ t  a carbohydrate. Fat is a fat. He whacks his own foreh ead, lifts
his shoulders, spreads his hands. “So, wise guy ,” he says. “Next question?”
Do not overlook  a plentiful sou r ce of nutrition that may be no farther
away tha n your feet , say s an other vo ice, in an annoy ing, instructive tone he
recognizes from a survival manual he once leafed through in someone else’ s
bathroom. When jumping of f a bridge, clench your bum so the water won’ t
rush up your anus. When drowning in quicksand, take a ski pole. Great
advice! This is t he same guy w ho said you could catch an alligator with a
pointed stick. W orms and grubs were what he recommended for a snack
food. Y ou could toast them if you wanted.Snowman can see himself turn ing over logs, but not just yet. There’ s
something else he’ll try first:  he’ll retrace his steps, go back to the
RejoovenEsense Compound. It’ s a long hike, longer than any he’ s taken yet,
but w orth it if he can get there.  He’ s sure there will still be a lot left, back
there: not only canned goods, booze as well. Once they’d figured out what
was goin g on, the Compound in habitants had dropped everything and fled.
They wouldn’ t have stayed long enough to clean out the supermarkets.
What he  really needs is a sprayg un, though – with one of those, he could
shoot pi goons, h old of f the wolvogs – and, Idea! Light bulb ove r head! – he
knows exactly where to find o ne. Crake’ s bubble-dome conta ins a whole
arsenal, which ought to be right where he left it. Paradice , wa s wh at they’ d
named the place. He’d been one of the angels guarding the  gate, in a
manner of speaking, so he know s where everything is, he’ll be able to lay
his h ands on the necessary item s. A quick in and out, a snatc h and grab.
Then he’ll be equipped for anything.
But you don’ t want to go back ther e, do you?  a soft voice whispers.
“Not particularly .”
Because?
“Because nothing.”
Go on, say it.
“I for get.”
No, you don’ t. Y ou’ve for gotten nothing.
“I’m a sick man,” he pleads. “I’m dying of scurvy! Go away!”
What he needs to do is concentrate. Prioritize. Whittle things down to
essentials. The essentials are: Unless you eat, you die . Y ou can’ t get any
more essential than that.
The Rej oov Compound is too far away for a casual day trip: it’ s more
like an expediti on. He’ll have t o stay out overnight. He doesn’ t welcome
that thought – where will he sleep? – but if he’ s careful he should be okay .
 
 W ith the can o f Sveltana sausages inside him and a goal in sight,
Snowman’ s beg inning to feel a lmost normal. He has a mission : he’ s even
looking forward to it. He mi ght unearth all sorts of things. Cherries
preserved in brandy; dry-roasted  peanuts; a precious can of imitation Spam,
if se rendipity strikes. A truckloa d of booze. The Compounds ha dn’ t stinted
themselves, you could find the full range of goods and services there when
there were shortages everywhere else.
He gets to his feet, stretches, scratches around the old scabs on his back –
they fee l like misplaced toenail s – then walks back along the path behind
his tree, picking up the empty Scotch bottle he threw down at t he wolvogs
the night before. He gives it a wistful snif f, then tosses it and the Sveltana
can onto  his midden-heap of e mpty containers, where a whole crowd of
debauched flies is making merry . Sometimes at night he ca n hear the
rakunks pawing through this private dump of his, searching for a free meal
among t he leav ings of catastrophe, as he himself has often done, and is
about to do again.
Then he  sets about making his preparations. He reties his sheet, arranging
it ov er h is shoulders and pulling  the extra up through his legs an d tucking it
in th rough the belt ef fect at the front, and knotting his last chocolate ener gy
bar into a corn er . He finds himself a stick, long and fairly straight. He
decides to take o nly one bottle of water: most likely there’ll be water along
the way . If not, he can always catch the runof f from the afternoon storm.
He’ll ha ve to tell the Children of  Crake he’ s going. He doesn’ t want them
to disco ver he’ s missing and se t out looking for him. They could run into
dangers, or get lost. Despite their irritating qualities – amon g which he
counts t heir naive optimism, their open friendliness, their calmness, and
their limited vocabularies – he feels protective towards them. Intentionally
or n ot, t hey’ve b een left in his care, and they simply have no idea. No idea,
for instance, of how inadequate his care really is.
Stick in hand, re hearsing the story he’ll tell them, he goes along the path
to th eir encampment. They call  this path the Snowman Fish Path, because
they carry his fis h along it every week. It skirts the edge of the beach while
keeping to the shade; nevertheless he finds it too bright, and tilts his
baseball cap down to keep out th e rays. He whistles as he approaches them,as he always do es to let them know he’ s coming. He doesn’ t wa nt to startle
them, st rain their politeness, cross their boundaries without being invited –
loom up  on them suddenly out o f the shrubbery , like some grote sque flasher
exposing himself to schoolkids.
His whistle is like a leper ’ s bell: all those bothered by cripples can get out
of h is way . No t that he’ s infe ctious: what he’ s got they’ll n ever catch.
They’re immune from him.
 
 P u r r i n g
The men  are performing their morning ritual, standing six feet apart in a
long line  curvin g of f into the trees at either side. They’re facing outward as
in pictures of muskoxen, pissing along the invisible line that marks their
territory . Their expressions are g rave, as befits the seriousness o f their task.
They rem ind Sn owman of his f ather heading out the door in the morning,
briefcase in hand, an earnest aiming-for -the-tar get frown between his eyes.
The men  do this twice a day , a s they’ve been taught: it’ s nec essary to
keep the  volume  constant, the o dour renewed. Crake’ s model had been the
canids a nd the mustelids, and a c ouple of other families and species as well.
Scent-marking w as a wide-ranging mammalian leitmotif, he’d said, nor was
it confined to the mammals. Certain reptiles, various lizards . . .
“Never mind about the lizards,” said Jimmy .
According to Crake – and Snowman has seen nothing since to d isprove it
– th e chemicals programmed into the men’ s urine are ef fective against
wolvogs and rakunks, and to a lesser extent against bobkittens a nd pigoons.
The wol vogs and bobkittens are reacting to the scent of their ow n kind and
must im agine a huge wolvog or bobkitten, from which they would be wise
to keep their distance. The rakunks and pigoons imagine lar ge predators. Or
this was the theory .
Crake allotted the special piss to men only; he said the y’d need
something impo rtant to do, something that didn’ t involve childbearing, so
they wouldn’ t feel left out. W oo dworking, hunting, high financ e, war , and
golf would no longer be options, he’d joked.
There ar e some disadvantages to this plan, in action – the ring-of-pee
boundary line smells like a ra rely cleaned zoo – but the circle is lar ge
enough so that t here’ s ample smell-free room inside it. Anyway Snowman
is used to it by now .
 
 
He waits  politel y for the men to finish. They don’ t ask him to j oin them:
they alre ady kn ow his piss is useless. Also it’ s their habit to say nothing
while performing their task: they need to concentrate, to make sure theirurine la nds in exactly the righ t place. Each has his own three feet of
borderland, his own area of responsibility . It’ s quite a sight: like the women,
these men – smooth-skinned, well-muscled – look like statues, and grouped
like this  they resemble an entire Baroque fountain. A few mermaids and
dolphins and cherubs and the scene would be complete. Into Snowman’ s
head comes the image of a circ le of naked car mechanics, eac h holding a
wrench. A whole squad of M r . Fix-its. A gay magazine centrefold.
W itnessing their synchronized ro utine, he almost expects them to break into
some campy chorus line from one of the seedier nightclubs.
The men  shake of f, break their circle, look over at Snowman w ith their
uniformly green eyes, smile. They’re always so goddamn af fable.
“W elcome, oh Snowman,” says  the one called Abraham Lincoln. “W ill
you join us inside our home?” He’ s getting to be a bit of a leader , that one.
W atch out for the leaders , C rake used to say . First the  leaders and the led,
then the tyrants and the slaves, then the massacr es. That’ s how it’ s always
gone.
Snowman steps over the wet line on the ground, ambles along with the
men. He’d just had a brilliant idea: what if he were to take some of the
saturated earth with him on his journey , as a protective device? It might
ward of f the wo lvogs. But on s econd thought, the men would find the gap
dug in their defences and woul d know he’d done it. Such an a ct could be
misinterpreted: he wouldn’ t want to be suspected of weakening their
fortress, exposing their young to danger .
He’ll have to cook up a new directive from Crake, present i t to them
later . Crake has told me you must collect an offering of your scen t.  Get
them all to piss in a tin can. Sprinkle it around his tree. Make a fairy ring.
Draw his own line in the sand.
 
 
They reach the o pen space at the  centre of the territorial circle. Of f to one
side, three of the women and one man are tending to a littl e boy , who
appears to be hurt in some way . These people are not immune from wounds
– the children fall down or bash their heads on trees, the women burn theirfingers tending the fires, there a re cuts and scrapes – but so far  the injuries
have been minor , and easily cured by purring.
Crake ha d worke d for years on the purring. Once he’d discovere d that the
cat family purred at the same frequency as the ultrasound used on bone
fractures and skin lesions and were thus equipped with their own self-
healing mechanism, he’d turned  himself inside out in the attempt to install
that feature. The trick was to get the hyoid apparatus modified and the
voluntary nerve pathways connected and the neocortex control systems
adapted without  hampering the speech abilities. There’d been quite a few
botched experim ents, as Snowman recalled. One of the trial batch of kids
had man ifested a tendency to sprout long whiskers and scramble up the
curtains; a couple of the others had vocal-expression impediments; one of
them had been limited to nouns, verbs, and roaring.
Crake did it tho ugh, thinks Snowman. He pulled it of f. Just look at the
four of them no w , heads down close to the child, purring away like car
engines.
“What happened to him?” he asks.
“He was bitten,” says Abraham. “One of the Children of Oryx bit him.”
This is something new . “What kind?”
“A bobkitten. For no reason.”
“It was outside our circle, it was in the forest,” says one of the women –
Eleanor Roose velt? Empress Josephine? – Snowman can’ t always
remember their names.
“W e wer e forced to hit it with ro cks, to make it go away ,” says Leonardo
da V inci, the man in the purring quartet.
So the bobkittens are hunting kiddies now , thinks Snowman. Maybe
they’re getting hungry – as hungry as he is himself. But they have lots of
rabbits t o choos e from, so it can’ t be simple hunger . Maybe they see the
Children of Crake, the little ones anyway , as just another kind of rabbit,
though easier to catch.
“T onight we will apologize to Oryx,” says one of the women –
Sacajawea? – “for the rocks. An d we will request her to tell her children notto bite us.”
He’ s never seen the women do this – this communion with Oryx –
although they refer to it frequently . What form does it take? They must
perform some kind of prayer o r invocation, since they can ha rdly believe
that Ory x appea rs to them in person. Maybe they go into trances. Crake
thought he’d done away with all that, eliminated what he called the G-spot
in the brain. God is a cluster of neur ons , he’d maintained. It had been a
dif ficult problem, though: take out too much in that area and you got a
zombie or a psychopath. But these people are neither .
They’re up to something though, something Crake didn’ t anticipate:
they’re conversing with the invisible, they’ve developed reverence. Good
for them, thinks Snowman. He likes it when Crake is proved wrong. He
hasn’ t caught them making any graven images yet, however .
“W ill the child be all right?” he asks.
“Y es,” says the woman calmly . “Already the tooth holes are  closing.
See?”
 
 
The rest of the women are doing the things they usually d o in the
morning. Some are tending the c entral fire; others squat around it, warming
themselves. The ir body thermostats are set for tropical conditions, so they
sometimes find it cold before the sun is high. The fire is fed with dead twigs
and bran ches, bu t primarily with dung, made into patties the size and shape
of hamb ur gers a nd dried in the  noonday sun. Since the Childr en of Crake
are vege tarians and eat mostly grass and leaves and roots, this material
burns w ell enou gh. As far as Snowman can tell, fire-tending is about the
only thing the women do that might be classified as work. Apart from
helping to catch his weekly fish, that is. And cooking it for him. On their
own behalf they do no cooking.
“Greetings, oh Snowman,” says  the next woman he comes to. H er mouth
is green from th e breakfast she’ s been chewing. She’ s breastfee ding a year -
old boy ,  who looks up at Snow man, lets the nipple pop out of his mouth,
and begins to cry . “It’ s only Snowman!” she says. “He won’ t hurt you.”Snowman still hasn’ t got used to it, the growth rate of these kids. The
yearling looks like a five-yea r -old. By the age of four he’ll be an
adolescent. Far too much time was wasted in childrearing, Cr ake used to
say . Chi ldrearing, and being a ch ild. No other species used up sixteen years
that way .
Some of the older children have  spotted him; they come closer , chanting,
“Snowman, Sno wman!” So he h asn’ t yet lost his allure. Now all the people
are gazing at him curiously , wondering what he’ s doing here. He never
arrives without a reason. On his first visits they’d thought – judging from
his appe arance –  that he must be hungry , and they’d of fered h im food – a
couple of handfuls of choice leaves and roots and grass, and several
caecotrophs they’d kept espec ially for him – and he’d had to explain
carefully that their food was not his food.
He finds the caecotrophs revolting, consisting as they do of semi-digested
herbage, dischar ged through the anus and reswallowed two or three times a
week. T his had been another boy-genius concept on the part of Crake. He’d
used th e vermiform appendix as the base on which to construct the
necessary or gan, reasoning that at an earlier evolutionary stage, when the
ancestral diet had been higher in roughage, the appendix must have fulfilled
some such function. But he’d stolen the specific idea from the Leporidae ,
the h ares and ra bbits, which depend on caecotrophs rather than  on several
stomachs like the ruminants. Maybe this is why bobkittens have started
hunting the young Crakers, Sn owman thinks: beneath the citrus overlay ,
they can smell the rabbity aroma of the caecotrophs.
Jimmy had ar gued with Crake over this feature. However you look at it,
he’d said, what it boiled down t o was eating your own shit. But Crake had
merely s miled. F or animals with a diet consisting lar gely of unrefined plant
materials, he’d pointed out, such a mechanism was necessary to break down
the cellulose, and without it the people would die. Also, as in the Leporidae ,
the caecotrophs were enriched with V itamin B1, and with other vitamins
and minerals as well, at four or five times the level of ordinary waste
material. Caecot rophs were simply a part of alimentation and digestion, a
way of making m aximum use of the nutrients at hand. Any objec tions to the
process were purely aesthetic.That was the point, Jimmy had said.
Crake had said that if so it was a bad one.
 
 
Snowman is now surrounded by an attentive circle. “Greetings, Children
of C rake,” he sa ys. “I have come to tell you that I’m going on a journey .”
The adults must have deduced t his already , from his long stick and the way
he’ s tied  his sheet: he’ s gone on journeys before, or that’ s what  he’ s called
his looting forays into the trailer parks and adjacent pleeblands.
“Are you going to see Crake?” asks one of the children.
“Y es,” says Snowman. “I’ll try to see him. I’ll see him if he’ s there.”
“Why?” says one of the older children.
“There are some things I need to ask him,” says Snowman cautiously .
“Y ou mu st tell him about the bobkitten,” says Empress Joseph ine. “The
one that bit.”
“That is a matter for Oryx,” says Madame Curie. “Not for Crake.” The
other women nod.
“W e wa nt to see Crake too,” th e children begin. “W e too, we too! W e
want to see Crak e too!” It’ s one of their favourite ideas, going to  see Crake.
Snowman blame s himself: he sh ouldn’ t have told them such exciting lies at
the beginning. He’d made Crake sound like Santa Claus.
“Don’ t b other S nowman,” says  Eleanor Roosevelt gently . “Surely he is
making this journey to help us. W e must thank him.”
“Crake is not for children,” says Snowman, looking as stern as he can
manage.
“Let us come too! W e want to see Crake!”
“Only Snowman can ever see Crake,” Abraham Lincoln says mildly .
That seems to settle it.
“This w ill be a longer journey ,” Snowman says. “Longer than the other
journeys. Maybe I won’ t come b ack for two days.” He holds up two fingers.
“Or thre e,” he adds. “So you shouldn’ t worry . But while I’m away , be sureto stay here in y our home, and do everything the way Crake and  Oryx have
taught you.”
A choru s of yesses, much nodd ing of heads. Snowman doesn’ t mention
the possibility of danger to himself. Perhaps it isn’ t a thing they ever
consider , nor is it a subject he b rings up – the more invulnerabl e they think
he is, the better .
“W e will come with you,” says  Abraham Lincoln. Several of the other
men look at him, then nod.
“No!” says Snowman, taken aback. “I mean, you can’ t see Crake, it isn’ t
allowed.” He doesn’ t want them tagging along, absolutely not! He doesn’ t
want them witnessing any weaknesses or failures on his part. Also, some of
the sights along the way might  be bad for their state of mind . Inevitably
they wo uld show er him with questions. In addition to all of whi ch, a day in
their company would bore the pants of f him.
But you don’ t have any pants , s ays a v oice in his head – a sm all voice this
time, a sad little child’ s voice. Joke! Joke! Don’ t kill me!
Please, n ot now ,  thinks Snowman. Not in company . In company , he can’ t
answer back.
“W e would come with you to  protect you,” says Benjamin Franklin,
looking at Snowman’ s long stic k. “From the bobkittens that bite, from the
wolvogs.”
“Y our smell is not very strong,” adds Napoleon.
Snowman finds this of fensively  smug. Also it’ s too euphemistic by half:
as they all know , his smell is str ong enough, it just isn’ t the right kind. “I’ll
be fine,” he says. “Y ou stay here.”
The men look dubious, but he thinks they’ll do as he says. T o reinforce
his authority he holds his watch up to his ear . “Crake says he’ll be watching
over you,” he says. “T o keep you safe.” W atch, watching over , says the
small child’ s voice. It’ s a pun, you cork-nut.
“Crake watches  over us in the daytime, and Oryx watches over us at
night,” Abraham Lincoln says dutifully . He doesn’ t sound too convinced.“Crake always watches over u s,” says Simone de Beauvoir serenely .
She’ s a yellow-b rown woman who reminds Snowman of Dolores, his long-
lost Phil ippina nanny; he sometimes has to resist the ur ge to drop to his
knees and throw his arms around her waist.
“He take s good care of us,” say s Madame Curie. “Y ou must tell him that
we are grateful.”
 
 
Snowman goes back along the Snowman Fish Path. He feels mushy:
nothing breaks him up like the g enerosity of these people, their willingness
to be of help. Also their gratitude towards Crake. It’ s so touching, and so
misplaced.
“Crake, you dickhead,” he says . He feels like weeping. Then he hears a
voice – his own! – saying boohoo ; he sees it, as if it’ s a printed w ord in a
comic-strip balloon. W ater leaks down his face.
“Not this again,” he says. What’ s the sensation? It isn’ t anger exactly; it’ s
vexation. An old word but serviceable. V exation  t ake s in more than Crake,
and indeed why blame Crake alone?
Maybe he’ s merely envious. Envious yet again. He too would like to be
invisible and adored. He too would like to be elsewhere. No ho pe for that:
he’ s up to his neck in the here and now .
He slows to a shamble, then to a halt. Oh, boohoo!  Why can’ t he control
himself? On the other hand, why bother , since nobody’ s watchin g? Still, the
noise he ’ s making seems to him  like the exaggerated howling o f a clown –
like misery performed for applause.
Stop snivelling, son , say s his father ’ s voice. Pull you rself tog ether . Y ou’r e
the man ar ound her e.
“Right!” Snowman yells. “Wha t exactly would you suggest? Y ou were
such a great example!”
But iron y is lost on the trees. H e wipes his nose with his stick-free hand
and keeps walking.
 
 B l u e
It’ s n ine in the morning, sun clock, by the time Snowman leave s the Fish
Path to turn inl and. As soon a s he’ s out of the sea breeze the humidity
shoots up, and h e attracts a cote rie of small green biting flies. He’ s barefoot
– his  shoes disintegrated some t ime ago, and in any case they w ere too hot
and damp – but he doesn’ t need them now because the soles of his feet are
hard as old rubber . Nevertheless  he walks cautiously: there might be broken
glass, to rn metal. Or there might be snakes, or other things tha t could give
him a nasty bite, and he has no weapon apart from the stick.
At first he’ s walking under trees, formerly parkland. Some distance away
he h ears the barking cough of a bobkitten. That’ s the sound they make as a
warning: perhap s it’ s a male, and it’ s met another male bobkitten. There’ll
be a fight, with the winner taking all – all the females in the territory – and
dispatching their kittens, if he can get away with it, to make room for his
own genetic package.
Those th ings we re introduced as a control, once the big green ra bbits had
become such a prolific and r esistant pest. Smaller than bobcats, less
aggressive – that was the of ficial story about the bobkittens.  They were
supposed to eliminate feral cats, thus improving the almost n on-existent
songbird population. The bobkittens wouldn’ t bother much abo ut birds, as
they would lack the lightness and agility necessary to catch them. Thus
went the theory .
All of which came true, except that the bobkittens soon got out o f control
in their turn. Small dogs went missing from backyards, babies from prams;
short joggers were mauled. Not in the Compounds, of course, and rarely in
the Modules, but there’d been a lot of grousing from the pleeblanders. He
should keep a lookout for tracks, and be careful of overhanging branches:
he doesn’ t like the thought of one of those things landing on his head.
There ar e alway s the wolvogs to  worry about. But wolvogs are nocturnal
hunters: in the heat of the day they tend to sleep, like most things with fur .
 
 Every so often there’ s a more open space – the remains of a drive-in
campsite, with a picnic table an d one of those outdoor -barbecue fireplaces,
though nobody used them very much once it got so warm and began to rain
every a fternoon. He comes upon one now , fungi sprouting from the
decaying table, the barbecue covered in bindweed.
Of f to the side, f rom what is pro bably a glade where the tents and trailers
used to be set up, he can hear laughter and singing, and shouts of
admiration and encouragement. There must be a mating going  on, a rare-
enough occasion among the people: Crake had worked out the numbers,
and had decreed that once every three years per female was more than
enough.
There’ll be the s tandard quintup let, four men and the woman in heat. Her
condition will be obvious to all from the bright-blue colour of h er buttocks
and abdomen – a trick of variab le pigmentation filched from the baboons,
with a contribution from the exp andable chromosphores of the octopus. As
Crake used to say , Think of an adaptation, any adaptation, and some animal
somewher e will have thought of it first .
Since it ’ s only the blue tissue and the pheromones released by it that
stimulate the males, there’ s no more unrequited love these day s, no more
thwarted lust; no more shadow between the desire and the act. Courtship
begins a t the first whif f, the first faint blush of azure, with the males
presenting flowers to the females – just as male penguins present round
stones, said Crake, or as the male silverfish presents a sperm pa cket. At the
same tim e they indulge in musi cal outbursts, like songbirds. Their penises
turn bright blue to match the blue abdomens of the females, and they do a
sort of blue-dick dance number , erect members waving to and fro in unison,
in ti me t o the foot movements and the singing: a feature suggest ed to Crake
by the sexual semaphoring of crabs. From amongst the floral tributes the
female chooses four flowers, a nd the sexual ardour of the unsuccessful
candidates dissi pates immediate ly , with no hard feelings left. Then, when
the b lue of her abdomen has reached its deepest shade, the female and her
quartet find a se cluded spot and go at it until the woman becom es pregnant
and her blue colouring fades. And that is that.No more No means yes , any way , thinks Snowman. No more prostitution,
no sexual abuse of children, no haggling over the price, no pimps, no sex
slaves. No more rape. The five of them will roister for hours, three of the
men standing guard and doing the singing and shouting while the fourth one
copulates, turn and turn about. C rake has equipped these women with ultra-
strong v ulvas – extra skin layer s, extra muscles – so they can sustain these
marathons. It no longer matters  who the father of the inevitable child may
be, since  there’ s no more property to inherit, no father -son loyalty required
for war . Sex is no longer a mysterious rite, viewed with ambivalence or
downright loath ing, conducted in the dark and inspiring suicides and
murders. Now it’ s more like an athletic demonstration, a free-spirited romp.
Maybe Crake was right, thinks  Snowman. Under the old dispensation,
sexual competition had been relentless and cruel: for every pa ir of happy
lovers th ere was  a dejected onlo oker , the one excluded. Love w as its own
transparent bubb le-dome: you could see the two inside it, but y ou couldn’ t
get in there yourself.
That had been the milder form: the single man at the window , drinking
himself into oblivion to the mournful strains of the tango. But such things
could es calate into violence. Extreme emotions could be lethal. If I can’ t
have you nobody will , and so forth. Death could set in.
 
 
“How m uch misery ,” Crake said one lunchtime – this must have been
when they were in their early twenties and Crake was already at the
W atson-Crick In stitute – “how m uch needless despair has been caused by a
series of biological mismatches, a misalignment of the hor mones and
pheromones? Resulting in the fact that the one you love so passionately
won’ t or can’ t love you. As a species we’re pathetic in that way:
imperfectly monogamous. If we  could only pair -bond for life, like gibbons,
or else opt for total guilt-free promiscuity , there’d be no more sexual
torment. Better plan – make it cyclical and also inevitable, as in the other
mammals. Y ou’d never want someone you couldn’ t have.”
“T rue en ough,” Jimmy replied. Or Jim, as he was now insisting, without
results: everyone still called him Jimmy . “But think what we’d be givingup.”
“Such as?”
“Courtship behaviour . In your plan we’d just be a bunch of hormone
robots.” Jimmy thought he should put things in Crake’ s terms,  which was
why he said courtship behaviour . What he mean t was the chall enge, the
excitement, the chase. “There’d be no free choice.”
“There’ s courtship behaviour in my plan,” said Crake, “except that it
would always succeed. And w e’re hormone robots anyway , only we’re
faulty ones.”
“W ell, w hat abo ut art?” said Jim my , a little desperately . He was , after all,
a student at the Martha Graham Academy , so he felt some need to defend
the art-and-creativity turf.
“What about it?” said Crake, smiling his calm smile.
“All that mismatching you talk  about. It’ s been an inspiration,  or that’ s
what they say . Think of all the poetry – think Petrarch, think J ohn Donne,
think the V ita Nuova , think . . .”
“Art,” said Crake. “I guess they still do a lot of jabbering about that, over
where you are. What is it Byron said? Who’d write if the y could do
otherwise? Something like that.”
“That’ s what I m ean,” said Jimmy . He was alarmed by the ref erence to
Byron. What right had Crake to poach on his own shoddy , threadbare
territory? Crake should stick to science and leave poor Byron to Jimmy .
“What do  you mean?” said Crake, as if coaching a stutterer .
“I mean, when you can’ t get the otherwise , then . . .”
“W ouldn’ t you rather be fucking?” said Crake. He wasn’ t including
himself in this question: his ton e was one of detached but not very strong
interest, as if he were conducting a survey of people’ s less attractive
personal habits, such as nose-picking.
Jimmy f ound th at his face got  redder and his voice got squeakier the
more ou trageous Crake became . He hated that. “When any civilization is
dust and ashes,” he said, “art is  all that’ s left over . Images, words, music.Imaginative structures. Meaning – human meaning, that is – is  defined by
them. Y ou have to admit that.”
“That’ s not quite all that’ s left over ,” said Crake. “The archeol ogists are
just as intereste d in gnawed bo nes and old bricks and ossifie d shit these
days. So metimes more intereste d. They think human meaning is defined by
those things too.”
Jimmy would like to have said Why ar e you always putting me down?  but
he was afraid of the possible a nswers, because it’ s so easy  b eing one of
them. So instead he said, “What have you got against it?”
“Against what? Ossified shit?”
“Art.”
“Nothing,” said Crake lazily . “People can amuse themselves any way
they like. If the y want to play with themselves in public, wha ck of f over
doodling, scribbling, and fiddli ng, it’ s fine with me. Anyway  it serves a
biological purpose.”
“Such as?” Jimmy knew that ev erything depended on keeping  his cool.
These ar guments had to be played through like a game: if he lost his temper ,
Crake won.
“The ma le frog,  in mating seaso n,” said Crake, “makes as much  noise as
it ca n. The fema les are attracted to the male frog with the biggest, deepest
voice be cause it suggests a mo re powerful frog, one with superior genes.
Small m ale frog s – it’ s been documented – discover that if they position
themselves in empty drainpipes, the pipe acts as a voice amplifier , and the
small frog appears much lar ger than it really is.”
“So?”
“So that ’ s what art is, for the artist,” said Crake. “An empty d rainpipe.
An amplifier . A stab at getting laid.”
“Y our an alogy f alls down when it comes to female artists,” said Jimmy .
“They’re not in it to get laid. They’d gain no biological advantage from
amplifying themselves, since potential mates would be deterred  rather than
attracted by that sort of amplification. Men aren’ t frogs, they  don’ t want
women who are ten times bigger than them.”“Female artists are biologically confused,” said Crake. “Y ou m ust have
discovered that by now .” This was a snide dig at Jimmy’ s current snarled
romance, with a brunette poet w ho’d renamed herself Mor gana and refused
to tell him what her given name had been, and who was currently on a
twenty-eight-day sex fast in honour of the Great Moon-Goddess Oestre,
patroness of soybeans and bunnies. Martha Graham attracted those kinds of
girls. An error , though, to have confided this af fair to Crake.
Poor Mo r gana, thinks Snowman . I wonder what happened to her . She’ll
never kn ow how  useful she’ s been to me, her and her claptrap . He feels a
little pa ltry for having pawned Mor gana’ s drivel of f on the Crakers as
cosmogony . But it seems to make them happy enough.
 
 
Snowman leans against a tree, l istening to the noises of f. My love is like
a b lue, blue rose . Moon on, har vest shine. So now Crake’ s had his way , he
thinks. Hooray for him. There’ s no more jealousy , no more wife -butcherers,
no more husband-poisoners. It’ s all admirably good-natured: no pushing
and shoving, more like the god s cavorting with willing nymphs on some
golden-age Grecian frieze.
Why th en does he feel so dejected, so bereft? Because he  doesn’ t
understand this kind of behaviour? Because it’ s beyond him? Because he
can’ t jump in?
And wh at would  happen if he tried? If he burst out of the bushes in his
filthy tattered sheet, reeking, hairy , tumescent, leering like a goat-balled,
cloven-hoofed satyr or a patch-eyed buccaneer from some ancient pirate
film – Aarr , me hearties!  – and attempted to join the amorous, blue-
bottomed tussle? He can imagine the dismay – as if an orang-utang had
crashed a formal waltzfest and s tarted groping some sparkly pastel princess.
He can imagine  his own dismay too. What right does he have  to foist his
pustulant, cankered self and soul upon these innocent creatures?
“Crake!” he whimpers. “Why am I on this earth? How come I’m alone?
Where’ s my Bride of Frankenstein?”
He need s to ditch this morbid tape-loop, flee the discouraging scene. Oh
honey , a  woman’ s vo ice whispers, Cheer up! Look on the bright side!Y ou’ve got to think positive!
He h ikes doggedly onward, mut tering to himself. The forest blots up his
voice, th e words  coming out of him in a string of colourless and soundless
bubbles, like air from the mouths of the drowning. The laughter and singing
dwindle behind him. Soon he can’ t hear them at all.
 
 S o Y u m m i e
Jimmy and Crake graduated fro m HelthW yzer High on a war m humid
day in early Feb ruary . The ceremony used to take place in June; the weather
then used to be sunny and moderate. But June was now the wet season all
the way up the east coast, and you couldn’ t have held an outdoor event then,
what with the th understorms. Even early February was pushin g it: they’d
ducked a twister by only one day .
HelthW yzer Hig h liked to do things in the old style, with marq uees and
awnings and the mothers in flowered hats and the fathers in pa namas, and
fruit-flavoured p unch, with or without alcohol, and Happicuppa cof fee, and
little plastic tubs of SoY ummie  Ice Cream, a HelthW yzer Own Brand, in
chocolate soy , mango soy , and  roasted-dandelion green-tea so y . It was a
festive scene.
Crake w as top  of the class . The bidding for him by the rival
EduCompounds at the Student Auction was brisk, and he was snatched up
at a high  price by the W atson-Crick Institute. Once a student there and your
future was assured. It was like going to Harvard had been, ba ck before it
got drowned.
Jimmy o n the other hand was a mid-range student, high on his word
scores but a poor average in the numbers columns. Even those
underwhelming math marks had been achieved with the help of Crake,
who’d coached Jimmy week ends, taking time away from his own
preparations. No t that he himself needed any extra cramming, he was some
sort of mutant, he could crank out the dif ferential equations in his sleep.
“Why a re you doing this?” Jimmy asked in the middle  of one
exasperating session. ( Y ou need  to look at it differ ently . Y ou have to get the
beauty of it. It’ s like chess. Her e – try this. See? See the pattern? Now it all
comes clear .  But Jimmy did  not see, and it did not all come clear .) “Why
help me out?”
“Because I’m a sadist,” Crake said. “I like to watch you suf fer .”
“Anyway , I appreciate it,” said Jimmy . He did appreciate it, fo r several
reasons, the best being that because Crake was known to be t utoring him
Jimmy’ s dad had no grounds for nagging.If Jim my had be en from a Modu le school, or – better – from one  of those
dump bins they still called “the public system,” he’d have shone like a
diamond in a drain. But the Compound schools were awash  in brilliant
genes, none of which he’d inher ited from his geeky , kak-hearted parents, so
his talents shrank by comparison. Nor had he been given any extra points
for bein g funny . He was less funny now , anyway: he’d lost interest in the
general audience.
After a humiliat ing wait while th e brainiacs were tussled over b y the best
EduCompounds and the transc ripts of the mediocre were fingered and
skimmed and had cof fee spilled  on them and got dropped on the floor by
mistake, Jimmy was knocked do wn at last to the Martha Graham Academy;
and even  that only after a long spell of lacklustre bidding. Not  to mention
some arm-twist ing – Jimmy su spected – on the part of his dad, who’d
known the Martha Graham president from their long-defunct mutual
summer camp and probably had the dirt on him. Shagging smaller boys,
dabbling in black-market pharmaceuticals. Or this was Jimmy’ s suspicion,
in view of the ill grace and excessive force with which his hand was shaken.
“W elcome to Martha Graham, s on,” said the president with a smile fake
as a vitamin-supplement salesman’ s.
When can I stop being a son? thought Jimmy .
Not yet.  Oh, not yet. “Attaboy , Jimmy ,” said his father at the gar den party
afterwards, giving him the arm punch. He had chocolate soy goo on his
dweeby tie, which had a pattern of pigs with wings. Just don’ t hug me,
Jimmy prayed.
“Honey , we’re so proud of you,” said Ramona, who’d come decked out
like a whore’ s lampshade in an  outfit with a low neckline and pink frills.
Jimmy’d seen something like th at on HottT otts once, only it was worn by
an eight-year -old . Ramona’ s push-up-bra breast tops were freckled from too
much su n, not that Jimmy was much interested in those any m ore. He was
familiar with the tectonics of cantilevered mammary-gland support devices
by now ,  and anyway he found Ramona’ s new matronly air re pellent. She
was getting little creases on either side of her mouth, despite the collagen
injections; her biological clock w as ticking, as she was fond of p ointing out.
Pretty s oon it would be the NooSkins BeauT oxique T reatmen t for her –W rinkles Paraly zed Forever , Employees Half-Price – plus, in say five years,
the Foun tain of Y ooth T otal Plunge, which rasped of f your entire epidermis.
She kissed him beside the nose, leaving a smooch of cerise lipstick; he
could feel it resting on his cheek like bicycle grease.
She was  allowed to say we  and to kiss him, because she was now
of ficially his stepmother . His real mother had been divorced fro m his father
in absentia , for “desertion, ” and the bogus  wedding of his father had been
celebrated, if that was the word  for it, soon after . Not that his real mother
would have given a wombat’ s anus, thought Jimmy . She wouldn’ t have
cared. She was of f having cutting-edge adventures on her own, far from the
dolorous festivities. He hadn’ t had a postcard from her in months; the last
one had  shown a Komodo dragon and had borne a Malaysian stamp, and
had prompted another visit from the CorpSeCorps.
At t he wedding Jimmy got as drunk as it took. He propped  himself
against a  wall, grinning stupidly  as the happy couple cut the s ugary cake,
All Real Ingredients, as Ramona had made known. Lots of cackling over
the f resh eggs. Any minute now Ramona would be planning a b aby , a more
satisfactory baby than Jimmy had ever been to anybody .
“Who c ares, who cares,” he’d whispered to himself. He didn’ t want to
have a father an yway , or be a father , or have a son or be one. He wanted to
be h imself, alone, unique, self-c reated and self-suf ficient. From  now on he
was going to be fancy-free, doing whatever he liked, picking globes of ripe
life of f the life trees, taking a bite or two, sucking out the juice, throwing
away the rinds.
It was Crake wh o’d got him ba ck to his room. By that time Jimmy had
been morose, and barely ambulatory . “Sleep it of f,” said Crake in his genial
fashion. “I’ll call you in the morning.”
 
 
Now he re was Crake at the gra duation garden party , looming up out of
the crow d, shin ing with achievement. No, he wasn’ t, Snowman amends.
Give him credit for that at least. He was never a triumphalist.
“Congratulations,” Jimmy made himself say . It was easier because he
was the only one at this gatheri ng who’d known Crake well for any lengthof time. Uncle Pete was in attendance, but he didn’ t count. A lso, he was
staying a s far away from Crake as possible. Maybe he’d finally figured out
who’d b een run ning up his Inte rnet bill. As for Crake’ s mother , she’d died
the month before.
It was an accident, or so went t he story . (Nobody liked to say the word
sabotage , wh ich was no toriously bad for business.) She must have cut
herself a t the hospital – although, said Crake, her job didn’ t invo lve scalpels
– o r scratched herself, or maybe  she’d been careless and had taken her latex
gloves o f f and had been touched  on a raw spot by some patient who was a
carrier . It was possible: she was  a nail-biter , she might have had what they
called an integumental entry p oint. In any case she’d picke d up a hot
bioform that had chewed thr ough her like a solar mower . It was a
transgenetic stap h, said some la bcoat, mixed with a clever ge ne from the
slime-mould fam ily; but by the time they’d pinned it down and started what
they hop ed would be ef fective treatment, she was in Isolation  and losing
shape ra pidly . Crake couldn’ t go in to see her , of course – nobody could,
everything in there was done with robotic arms, as in nucle ar -materials
procedures – but he could watch her through the observation window .
“It was impressive,” Crake told Jimmy . “Froth was coming out.”
“Froth?”
“Ever put salt on a slug?”
Jimmy said he hadn’ t.
“Okay . So, like when you brush your teeth.”
His mother was supposed to be able to speak her last words to him via
the mike  system , said Crake, but there was a digital failure; so though he
could see her lips moving, he couldn’ t hear what she was saying.
“Otherwise put,  just like daily life,” said Crake. He said anyway he hadn’ t
missed much, because by that stage she’d been incoherent.
Jimmy didn’ t understand how he could be so nil about it – it was
horrible, the thought of Crake watching his own mother dissol ve like that.
He himself wouldn’ t have been able to do it. But probably it was just an act.
It w as Crake p reserving his dignity , because the alternative would have
been losing it. 
 H a p p i c u p p a
For the vacation following graduation, Jimmy was invited to the
Moosonee HelthW yzer Gated V acation Community on the western shore of
Hudson’ s Bay , where the top brass of HelthW yzer went to beat the heat.
Uncle Pete had a nice place there, “nice place” being his term.  Actually it
was like  a combination mausole um and dirty-weekend hideaway – a lot of
stonework, king-sized magic-finger beds, bidets in every bathroom –
though it was h ard to imagine Uncle Pete getting up to anything of much
interest in there. Jimmy had bee n invited, he was pretty sure, so that Uncle
Pete wouldn’ t have to be alone with Crake. Uncle Pete spent most of his
time on the golf course and the rest of it in the hot tub, and Jimmy and
Crake were free to do whatever they liked.
They pro bably would have gone back to interactives and state-s ponsored
snuf f, and porn, as relaxation after their final exams, but that was the
summer the gen-mod cof fee w ars got underway , so they wa tched those
instead. The wars were over th e new Happicuppa bean, developed by a
HelthW yzer subsidiary . Until th en the individual cof fee beans on each bush
had ripe ned at dif ferent times and had needed to be handpicked and pro-
cessed and shipped in small qua ntities, but the Happicuppa cof fee bush was
designed so that all of its bean s would ripen simultaneously ,  and cof fee
could be  grown on huge plant ations and harvested with machines. This
threw th e small  growers out of  business and reduced both the m and their
labourers to starvation-level poverty .
The res istance movement was global. Riots broke out, crops were
burned, Happicuppa cafés were looted, Happicuppa personnel were car -
bombed or kidnapped or shot b y snipers or beaten to death by mobs; and,
on t he other sid e, peasants were massacred by the army . Or by the armies,
various armies; a number of countries were involved. But the soldiers and
dead peasants all looked much the same wherever they were. They looked
dusty . It was amazing how much dust got stirred up in the course of such
events.
“Those guys should be whacked,” said Crake.
“Which ones? The peasants? Or the guys killing them?”“The lat ter . Not because of the dead peasants, there’ s always been dead
peasants. But they’re nuking the cloud forests to plant this stuf f.”
“The peasants would do that too if they had half a chance,” said Jimmy .
“Sure, but they don’ t have half a chance.”
“Y ou’re taking sides?”
“There aren’ t any sides, as such.”
Nothing much to be said to that. Jimmy thought about shoutin g bogus ,
decided it might not apply . A nyway they’d used up that w ord. “Let’ s
change channels,” he said.
But ther e was Happicuppa coverage, it seemed, wherever you turned.
There w ere protests and demonstrations, with tear gas and shooting and
bludgeoning; then more protests , more demonstrations, more tear gas, more
shooting, more bludgeoning. This went on day after day . There hadn’ t been
anything like it since the first decade of the century . Crake said it was
history in the making.
Don’ t Drink Death! said the p osters. Union dockworkers in Australia,
where th ey still had unions, refused to unload Happicuppa car goes; in the
United S tates, a  Boston Cof fee Party sprang up. There was a st aged media
event, b oring be cause there was no violence – only balding guys with retro
tattoos or white patches where they’d been taken of f, and sev ere-looking
baggy-boobed w omen, and quite a few overweight or spindly members of
mar ginal, earnest religious groups, in T -shirts with smiley-faced angels
flying with birds or Jesus holding hands with a peasant or God Is Green on
the f ront. They w ere filmed dumping Happicuppa products into the harbour ,
but none of the boxes sank. So there was the Happicuppa logo, lots of
copies of it, b obbing around  on the screen. It could have been a
commercial.
“Makes me thirsty ,” said Jimmy .
“Shit for brains,” said Crake. “They for got to add rocks.”
 
 As a rule they watched the unfo lding of events on the Noodie News, via
the Net, but for a change they sometimes watched fully clothed newscasters
on the wall-size d plasma screen in Uncle Pete’ s leatherette-upholstered TV
room. T he suits and shirts and ties seemed bizarre to Jimmy , especially if he
was mildly stoned. It was weir d to imagine what all those se rious-faced
talking heads would look like minus their fashion items, full frontal on the
Noodie News.
Uncle P ete sometimes watched too, in the evenings, when he was back
from the  golf course. He’d pour himself a drink, then provide a running
commentary . “The usual uproar ,” he said. “They’ll get tired o f it, they’ll
settle do wn. Ev erybody wants a cheaper cup of cof fee – you can’ t fight
that.”
“No, yo u can’ t,”  Crake would s ay agreeably . Uncle Pete had a chunk of
Happicuppa stock in his portfolio, and not just a little chunk. “What a
mort,” Crake would say as h e scanned Uncle Pete’ s holdings on his
computer .
“Y ou could trade his stuf f,” said Jimmy . “Sell the Happicuppa, buy
something he really hates. Buy windpower . No, better – buy a c roaker . Get
him some South American cattle futures.”
“Nah,” s aid Cra ke. “I can’ t risk  that with a labyrinth. He’d notice. He’d
find out I’ve been getting in.”
 
 
Things escalated after a cell of crazed anti-Happicuppa fanatics  bombed
the Linc oln Memorial, killing five visiting Japanese schoolkid s that were
part of a T our of Democracy . Stop the Hipocrissy , read the note le ft at a safe
distance.
“That’ s pathetic,” said Jimmy . “They can’ t even spell.”
“They made their point though,” said Crake.
“I hope they fry ,” said Uncle Pete.
Jimmy didn’ t answer , because n ow they were looking at the blockade of
the H appicuppa head-of fice compound in Maryland. There in t he shouting
crowd, clutching a sign that read A Happicup Is a Crappi Cup, with a greenbandanna over her nose and mouth, was – wasn’ t it? – his vanished mother .
For a moment the bandanna slip ped down and Jimmy saw her clearly – her
frowning eyebrows, her candid blue eyes, her determined mouth. Love
jolted th rough h im, abrupt and p ainful, followed by anger . It wa s like being
kicked: he must have let out a gasp. Then there was a CorpSeCorps char ge
and a cloud of t ear gas and a smattering of what sounded like gunfire, and
when Jimmy looked again his mother had disappeared.
“Freeze the frame!” he said. “T urn back!” He wanted to be s ure. How
could she be taking such a risk? If they got hold of her she’d really
disappear , this time forever . But after a brief glance at him Crake had
already switched to another channel.
I s hould n’ t have said anything, thought Jimmy . I shouldn’ t have called
attention. He was cold with fear now . What if Uncle Pete made the
connection and phoned the Corpsmen? They’d be right on her trail, she’d be
roadkill.
But Uncle Pete didn’ t seem to  have noticed. He was pouring himself
another Scotch. “They should spraygun the whole bunch of the m,” he said.
“Once t hey’ve smashed those cameras. Who took that footage anyway?
Sometimes you wonder who’ s running this show .”
 
 
“So what was that about?” said Crake when they were alone.
“Nothing,” said Jimmy .
“I did freeze it,” said Crake. “I got the whole sequence.”
“I th ink you bet ter erase it,” sa id Jimmy . He was past being frightened,
he’d entered full-blown dejectio n. Surely at this very moment  Uncle Pete
was turn ing on his cellphone and punching in the numbers; hours from now
it would  be the CorpSeCorps interrogation all over again. His mother this,
his mother that. He would just have to go through it.
“It’ s okay ,” said Crake, which Jimmy took to mean: Y ou can  trust me .
Then he said, “ Let me guess. Phylum Chordata, Class V ertebrata, Order
Mammalia, Family Primates, Genus Homo , Species sapiens sapiens ,
subspecies your mother .”“Big points,” said Jimmy listlessly .
“Not a stretch,” said Crake. “I spotted her right away , those blue eyes. It
was either her or a clone.”
If Crake had recognized her , who else might have done so? Everyone in
the HelthW yzer Compound had doubtless been shown pictures: Y ou seen
this woman?  The story of his deviant mother had followed Jimmy around
like an unwanted dog, and wa s probably half responsible for his poor
showing at the Student Auction. He wasn’ t dependable, he wa s a security
risk, he had a taint.
“My dad was the same,” said Crake. “He buggered of f too.”
“I thoug ht he died,” said Jimm y . That’ s all he’d ever got out of Crake
before: dad died, full stop, cha nge the subject. It wasn’ t any thing Crake
would talk about.
“That’ s what I m ean. He went o f f a pleebland overpass. It was rush hour ,
so by the time they got to him he was cat food.”
“Did he jump, or what?” said Jimmy . Crake didn’ t seem too worked up
about it, so he felt it was okay to ask that.
“It was the general opinion,” said Crake. “He was a top researcher over at
HelthW yzer W e st, so he got a really nice funeral. The tact w as amazing.
Nobody used the word suicide . They said ‘your father ’ s accident.’”
“Sorry about that,” said Jimmy .
“Uncle Pete was over at our place all the time. My mother said he was
really supportive .” Crake said supportive  like a quote. “She said, besides
being m y dad’ s boss and best friend, he was turning out to be a really good
friend of the fa mily , not that I’d ever seen him around much before. He
wanted things to be r esolved  for us, he said he was anxious about that. He
kept try ing to have these heart -to-heart talks with me – tell me all about
how my father had pr oblems .”
“Meaning your dad was a nutbar ,” said Jimmy .
Crake looked at Jimmy out of his slanty green eyes. “Y eah. But he
wasn’ t. He was acting worried lately , but he didn’ t have pr oblems . He had
nothing like that on his mind. Nothing like jumping. I’d have known.”“Y ou think he maybe fell of f?”
“Fell of f?”
“Of f the overpass.” Jimmy wanted to ask what he’d been doing on a
pleebland overp ass in the first place, but it didn’ t seem like the right time.
“W as there a railing?”
“He was  kind of uncoordinated, ” said Crake, smiling in an odd way . “He
didn’ t always watch where he was going. He was head in the clouds. He
believed in contributing to the improvement of the human lot.”
“Y ou get along with him?”
Crake paused. “He taught me to play chess. Before it happened.”
“W ell, I guess not after ,” said Jimmy , trying to lighten things up, because
by this time he was feeling sorry for Crake, and he didn’ t like that at all.
 
 
How co uld I have missed it? Sn owman thinks. What he was te lling me.
How could I have been so stupid?
No, not stupid. He can’ t describe himself, the way he’d been. Not
unmarked – events had marke d him, he’d had his own scars, his dark
emotions. Ignorant, perhaps. Unformed, inchoate.
There had been something wille d about it though, his ignoranc e. Or not
willed, exactly: structured. He’d grown up in walled spaces, and then he
had become one. He had shut things out.
 
 A p p l i e d  R h e t o r i c
At the end of that vacation, Crake went of f to W atson-Crick and Jimmy
to Martha Graham. They shook hands at the bullet-train station.
“See you around,” said Jimmy .
“W e’ll e-mail,” said Crake. Th en, noticing Jimmy’ s dejection, he said,
“Come on, you did okay , the place is famous.”
“W as famous,” said Jimmy .
“It won’ t be that bad.”
Crake w as wrong, for once. M artha Graham was falling apart. It was
surrounded – Jimmy observed a s the train pulled in – by the tackiest kind of
pleeblands: vacant warehouses, burnt-out tenements, empty parking lots.
Here and there were sheds and huts put together from scavenged materials –
sheets of tin, slabs of plywood – and inhabited no doubt by squatters. How
did s uch people exist? Jimmy ha d no idea. Y et there they were, on the other
side of the razor wire. A couple of them raised their middle fi ngers at the
train, shouted something that the bulletproof glass shut out.
The secu rity at the Martha Graham gateway was a joke. The gu ards were
half asle ep, the walls – scrawle d all over with faded graf fiti – could have
been sca led by a one-legged d warf. Inside them, the Bilbao-ripof f cast-
concrete buildin gs leaked, the lawns were mud, either baked or liquid
depending on the season, and there were no recreational facilities apart
from a swimmi ng pool that loo ked and smelled like a giant sardine can.
Half the time the air conditioning in the dorms didn’ t work; there was a
brownout proble m with the elec trical supply; the food in the cafeteria was
mostly beige and looked like rakunk shit. There were arthropods in the
bedrooms, families and genera various, but half of them were cockroaches.
Jimmy f ound the place depressing, as did – it seemed – everyon e there with
any more neural capacity than a  tulip. But this was the hand li fe had dealt
him, as his dad had said during their awkward goodbye, and now Jimmy
would just have to play it as well as he could.
Right, D ad, Jimm y had thought. I’ve always known I could count on you
for really , really sage advice. 
 
The Ma rtha Graham Academy  was named after some gory old dance
goddess of the twentieth century who’d apparently mowed quite a swath in
her day .  There was a gruesome  statue of her in front of the administration
building, in her role – said the  bronze plaque – as Judith, cutting of f the
head of a guy i n a historical ro be outfit called Holofernes. Retro feminist
shit, was the general student op inion. Every once in a while the statue got
its tits decorated  or steel wool glued onto its pubic region – Jim my himself
had don e some of this glueing –  and so comatose was the management that
the ornaments often stayed up there for months before they were noticed.
Parents were always objecting t o this statue – poor role model, they’d say ,
too aggr essive, too bloodthirsty ,  blah blah – whereupon the students would
rally to its defen ce. Old Martha was their mascot, they’d say , th e scowl, the
dripping head and all. She represented life, or art, or something. Hands of f
Martha. Leave her alone.
The Academy had been set up by a clutch of now-dead ric h liberal
bleeding hearts from Old New Y ork as an Arts-and-Humanitie s college at
some tim e in the last third of the twentieth century , with special emphasis
on the Performing Arts – acting , singing, dancing, and so forth. T o that had
been added Film-making in th e 1980s, and V ideo Arts after that. These
things were still taught at Mart ha Graham – they still put on p lays, and it
was there Jimmy saw Macbeth  in the flesh and  reflected that A nna K. and
her W eb site for peeping T oms  had done a more convincing job of Lady
Macbeth while sitting on her toilet.
The students of song and dance continued to sing and dance, though the
ener gy h ad gon e out of these activities and the classes were small. Live
performance had suf fered in the sabotage panics of the early twenty-first
century – no on e during those decades had wanted to form part of a lar ge
group at a public  event in a dark, easily destructible walled spac e, or no one
with any  cool or status. Theatrical events had dwindled into versions of the
singalong or the tomato bomb ardment or the wet T -shirt c ontest. And
though various older forms had dragged on – the TV sitcom, the rock video
– their audience was ancient and their appeal mostly nostalgic.So a lot of what went on at Martha Graham was like studying  Latin, or
book-binding: p leasant to contemplate in its way , but no longer central to
anything, though every once in a while the college president would subject
them to some yawner about the vital arts and their irresistible reserved seat
in the big red-velvet amphitheatre of the beating human heart.
As for Film-making and V ideo Arts, who needed them? Anyone with a
computer could splice together whatever they wanted, or digitally alter old
material, or create new animatio n. Y ou could download one of the standard
core plots and add whatever faces you chose, and whatever bodies too.
Jimmy h imself had put together a naked Pride and Pr ejudice  and a naked
T o the Lighthouse , ju st for laughs,  and in sophomore V izArts at HelthW yzer
he’d done The Maltese Falcon , with costumes by Kate Greenaway and
depth-and-shadow styling by Re mbrandt. That one had been good. A dark
tonality , great chiaroscuro.
W ith this kind of attrition going on – this erosion of its former
intellectual territory – Martha Graham had found itself without a very
convincing package to of fer . As the initial funders had died of f and the
enthusiasm of the dedicated artsy money had waned and endowment had
been sought in more down-to-e arth quarters, the curricular emphasis had
switched to other arenas. Contemporary  arenas, they we re called. W ebgame
Dynamics, for instance; money  could still be made from that. Or Image
Presentation, lis ted in the calen dar as a sub-branch of Pictorial  and Plastic
Arts. W i th a degree in PicPlarts , as the students called it, you c ould go into
advertising, no sweat.
Or P roblematics . Problematics was for word people, so that was what
Jimmy took. Spin and Grin was its nickname among the students. Like
everything at Martha Graham it had utilitarian aims. Our Students Graduate
W ith Em ployable Skills, ran the motto underneath the original Latin motto,
which was Ars Longa V ita Br evis .
 
 
Jimmy had few illusions. He kn ew what sort of thing would be open to
him whe n he came out the other end of Problematics with his ris ible degree.
W indow-dressing was what he’d be doing, at best – decoratin g the cold,hard, nu merical real world in flo ssy 2- D verbiage. Depending o n how well
he did in his P roblematics cou rses – Applied Logic, Applied Rhetoric,
Medical Ethics and T erminolo gy , Applied Semantics, Relat ivistics and
Advanced Misc haracterization, Comparative Cultural Psychology , and the
rest – he’d have a choice between well-paid window-dressing for a big
Corp or flimsy c ut-rate stuf f for a borderline one. The prospect o f his future
life stret ched be fore him like a sentence; not a prison sentence, but a long-
winded sentence  with a lot of u nnecessary subordinate clauses, as he was
soon in the habit of quipping d uring Happy Hour pickup time at the local
campus bars and pubs. He coul dn’ t say he was looking forwar d to it, this
rest-of-his-life.
Nevertheless, he  dug himself in at Martha Graham as if into a trench, and
hunkered down for the duratio n. He shared a dorm suite – o ne cramped
room either side, silverfish-ri dden bathroom in the middle – with a
fundamentalist v egan called Bernice, who had stringy hair held back with a
wooden clip in the shape of a toucan and wore a successio n of God’ s
Gardeners T -shi rts, which – due to her aversion to chemical compounds
such as underarm deodorants – stank even when freshly laundered.
Bernice let him know how much she disapproved of his carnivorous
ways by  kidnap ping his leather sandals and incinerating them on the lawn.
When he protested that they hadn’ t been real leather , she said they’d been
posing as it, and as such deserved their fate. After he’d had a few girls up to
his room – none of Bernice’ s business, and they’d been quiet enough, apart
from some pharmaceutically in duced giggling and a lot of understandable
moans –  she’d manifested her views on consensual sex by making a bonfire
of all Jimmy’ s jockey shorts.
He’d complained about that to Student Services, and after a few tries –
Student Services at Martha Graham was notoriously grumpy , staf fed as it
was by burnt-ou t TV -series actors who could not for give the world for their
plunge from mar ginal fame – he got himself moved to a single room. ( First
my sandals, then my underwear . Next it’ll be me. The woman is a
pyr omaniac, let me r ephrase that, she is r eality-challenged in a  major way .
Y ou wish to see the concr ete evidence of her cr otchwear auto- da-fé? Look
into this tiny envelope. If you see me next in an urn, gritty ashes, couple of
teeth, yo u want the r esponsibilit y? Hey , I’m the Student her e and you’r e theService. Her e it is, right on the letter head, see? I’ve e-mailed  this to the
pr esident. )
(This is not what he actually said , of course. He knew better than that. He
smiled, he presented himself as a reasonable human being, he e nlisted their
sympathy .)
After th at, after he got his new room, things were a little better . At least
he was free to pursue his social life unhampered. He’d discovered that he
projected a form of melancholy attractive to a certain kind of woman, the
semi-artistic, wise-wound kind in lar ge supply at Martha Graham.
Generous, caring, idealistic women, Snowman thinks of them  now . They
had a few scars of their own, the y were working on healing. At  first Jimmy
would ru sh to their aid: he was tender -hearted, he’d been told, and nothing
if no t ch ivalrous. He’d draw out of them their stories of hurt,  he’d apply
himself to them like a poultice. But soon the process would r everse, and
Jimmy would switch from bandager to bandagee. These women would
begin to see how  fractured he was, they’d want to help him gain  perspective
on li fe a nd access the positive aspects of his own spirituality . Th ey saw him
as a  crea tive pro ject: the raw m aterial, Jimmy in his present gl oomy form;
the end product, a happy Jimmy .
Jimmy let them labour away on  him. It cheered them up, it m ade them
feel usef ul. It was touching, the lengths to which they would go . W ould this
make hi m happy? W ould this? W ell then, how about this ? But he took care
never to  get any less melancholy  on a permanent basis. If he were to do that
they’d expect a reward of some  sort, or a result at least; they’ d demand a
next step , and then a pledge. Bu t why would he be stupid enough to give up
his g rey rainy-day allure – the crepuscular essence, the foggy a ureole, that
had attracted them to him in the first place?
“I’m a lost caus e,” he would te ll them. “I’m emotionally dyslexic.” He
would also tell them they were beautiful and they turned him on. T rue
enough, no falsehood there, he always meant it. He would also say that any
major investme nt on their pa rt would be wasted on him, he was an
emotional landfill site, and they should just enjoy the here and now .
Sooner or later they’d complain  that he refused to take things seriously .
This, af ter havi ng begun by sa ying he needed to lighten up. When theirener gy flagged at last and the w eeping began, he’d tell them he loved them.
He took  care to do this in a hopeless voice: being loved by him was a
poison pill, it w as spiritually toxic, it would drag them down to the murky
depths where he himself was imprisoned, and it was because he loved them
so m uch that he wanted them out of harm’ s way , i.e., out of his ruinous life.
Some of them saw through it – Gr ow up, Jimmy!  – but on the whole, how
potent that was.
He was always sad when they decamped. He disliked the part where
they’d get mad a t him, he was upset by any woman’ s anger , but once they’d
lost thei r tempers with him he’d know it was over . He hated being dumped,
even though he himself had ma noeuvred the event into place. But another
woman with intriguing vulnerab ilities would happen along shortly . It was a
time of simple abundance.
He wasn ’ t lying though, not all t he time. He really did love these women,
sort of. He really  did want to make them feel better . It was just t hat he had a
short attention span.
“Y ou scoundrel, ” says Snowman out loud. It’ s a fine word, scoundr el ;
one of the golden oldies.
 
 
They kn ew about his scandalous mother , of course, these women. Ill
winds blow far and find a r eady welcome. Snowman is ashamed to
remember how he’d used that s tory – a hint here, a hesitation there. Soon
the women would be consoling him, and he’d roll around in their sympathy ,
soak in it, massage himself with it. It was a whole spa experience in itself.
By t hen his moth er had attained the status of a mythical being, something
that transcended  the human, with dark wings and eyes that burned like
Justice, and a sword. When he got to the part where she’d stole n Killer the
rakunk away from him he could usually wring out a tear or two, not from
himself but from his auditors.
What di d you do?  ( Eyes wide, sin gle pat of hand on arm, sympathetic
gaze.)
Oh, you know .  (Shrug, look away , change subject.)It wasn’ t all acting.
Only Oryx had not been impressed by this dire, feathered mother of his.
So J immy , your mother went s omewher e else? T oo bad. Maybe she had
some good r easons. Y ou thought of that?  Oryx had neither pity for him nor
self-pity . She was not unfeeling : on the contrary . But she refused to feel
what he wanted her to feel. W as that the hook – that he coul d never get
from her what the others had given him so freely? W as that her secret?
 
 A s p e r g e r ’ s  U .
Crake an d Jimm y kept in touch  by e-mail. Jimmy whined about Martha
Graham in what he hoped was an entertaining way , applying unusual and
disparaging adje ctives to his professors and fellow students. He described
the diet of recy cled botulism and salmonella, sent lists of t he dif ferent
multi-legged creatures he’d found in his room, moaned about the inferior
quality of the m ood-altering sub stances for sale in the dismal student mall.
Out of self-prote ction, he concealed the intricacies of his sex life except for
what he considered the minimum  of hints. ( These ba bes ma y not be able to
count to ten, but  hey , who needs numeracy in the sack? Just so long as they
think it’ s ten, haha, joke, . )
He c ouldn’ t help boasting a little, because this seemed to be – from any
indications he’d  had so far – the  one field of endeavour in which he had the
edge ov er Crake. At HelthW yzer , Crake hadn’ t been what you’d call
sexually active. Girls had foun d him intimidating. T rue, he’d attracted a
couple of obsessives who’d thought he could walk on water ,  and who’d
followed him around and sent him slushy , fervent e-mails and threatened to
slit their wrists on his behalf. Perhaps he’d even slept with them on
occasion; but he’d never gone out of his way . Falling in love, although it
resulted in altered body chemist ry and was therefore real, was a hormonally
induced delusio nal state, according to him. In addition it was humiliating,
because it put you at a disadvantage, it gave the love objec t too much
power . A s for sex per se, it lack ed both challenge and novelty , and was on
the whole a deeply imperfect solution to the problem of inter generational
genetic transfer .
The girl s Jimmy accumulated had found Crake more than a little creepy ,
and it had made Jimmy feel superior to come to his defence. “He’ s okay ,
he’ s just on another planet,” was what he used to say .
But how  to know about Crake’ s present circumstances? Crake divulged
few fact oids abo ut himself. Did he have a roommate, a girlfriend? He never
mentioned eithe r , but that meant nothing. His e-mail descriptions were of
the c ampus facilities, which wer e awesome – an Aladdin’ s treas ure-trove of
bio-research gizmos – and of, well, what else? What did  Crake have to sayin his terse initial communications from the W atson-Crick Institute?
Snowman can’ t remember .
They’d played long drawn-out games of chess though, two moves a day .
Jimmy was better at chess by now; it was easier without Crake’ s distracting
presence, and the way he had of drumming his fingers and h umming to
himself, as if he already saw thirty moves ahead and was patiently waiting
for Jimmy’ s tortoiselike mind to trundle up to the next rook sacrifice. Also,
Jimmy could look up grandmasters and famous games of the past on
various Net programs, in between moves. Not that Crake wasn ’ t doing the
same thing.
 
 
After fiv e or six months Crake l oosened up a bit. He was having to work
harder t han at HelthW yzer Hig h, he wrote, because there was  a lot more
competition. W atson-Crick was known to the students there as Asper ger ’ s
U. because of t he high percentage of brilliant weirdos that strolled and
hopped and lurched through its corridors. Demi-autistic, genetically
speaking; single-track tunnel-vision minds, a marked degree of social
ineptitude – these were not your sharp dressers – and luckily f or everyone
there, a high tolerance for mildly deviant public behaviour .
Mor e than at HelthW yzer?  asked Jimmy .
Compar ed to this place, HelthW yzer was a pleebland , C rake replied.  It
was wall-to-wall NT s.
NT s?
Neur otypicals.
Meaning?
Minus the genius gene.
So, ar e you a neur otypical?  J immy asked t he next week, having had
some tim e to think this over . Al so to worry about whether he himself was a
neurotypical, an d if so, was that now bad, in the gestalt of Crake? He
suspected he was, and that it was.But Crake never answered that one. This was his way: when there was a
question he didn’ t want to address, he acted as if it hadn’ t been asked.
Y ou shou ld come  and see this joint , he told Jimmy in late October of their
sophomore year . Give yourself a lifetime experience. I’ll pr etend you’r e my
dull-normal cousin. Come for Thanksgiving W eek.
The alternative for Jimmy was turkey with the parental-unit turkeys, joke,
haha, , s aid Jimmy , an d he wasn’ t up for that; so it would be his pleas ure
to accep t. He told himself he was being a pal and doing Crake a favour , for
who did lone Cr ake have to visit  with on his holidays, aside from his boring
old australopithecine not-really-an-uncle Uncle Pete? But also he found he
was mis sing Cr ake. He hadn’ t seen him now for more than a year . He
wondered if Crake had changed.
 
 
Jimmy h ad a couple of term p apers to finish before the holi days. He
could have bought them of f the Net, of course – Martha G raham was
notoriously lax about scorekeeping, and plagiarism was a cottage industry
there – but he’d taken a posi tion on that. He’d write his own papers,
eccentric though  it seemed; a line that played well with the Mar tha Graham
type of woman. They liked a dash of originality and risk -taking and
intellectual rigour .
For the same reason he’d taken to spending hours in the more obscure
regions of the library stacks, ferreting out arcane lore. Better libraries, at
institutions with more money , had long ago burned their actual books and
kept everything on CD-ROM, b ut Martha Graham was behind the times in
that, as in everything. W earing a nose-cone filter to protect against the
mildew , Jimmy grazed among the shelves of mouldering paper , dipping in
at random.
Part of what impelled him wa s stubbornness; resentment, even. The
system had filed him among the rejects, and what he was st udying was
considered – at the decision-making levels, the levels of real power – an
archaic waste of time. W ell then , he would pursue the superfluous as an end
in itself. He would be its champion, its defender and preserver . Who was it
who’d said that all art was com pletely useless? Jimmy couldn’ t recall, buthooray for him, whoever he wa s. The more obsolete a book was, the more
eagerly Jimmy would add it to his inner collection.
He com piled l ists of old wo rds too – words of a precision and
suggestiveness that no longer had a meaningful application in today’ s
world, or toady’ s world , a s Jimmy som etimes deliberat ely misspelled it on
his term papers. ( T ypo , the profs woul d note, which showed how alert they
were.) H e mem orized these hoary locutions, tossed them left-handed into
conversation: wheelwright, lod estone, saturnin e, adamant . He’d developed
a str angely tender feeling towa rds such words, as if they were children
abandoned in the woods and it was his duty to rescue them.
One of his term papers – for his Applied Rhetoric course – was titled
“Self-Help Books of the T wentieth Century: Exploiting Hope and Fear ,”
and it supplied h im with a great stand-up routine for use in the student pubs.
He’d quote snatches of this and that – Impr ove Y our Self-Image ; The
T welve-Step Plan for Assisted Suicide ; How to Make Friends and Influence
People ; Flat Abs in Five W eeks ; Y ou Can Have It All ; Entertaining W ithout
a Maid ; Grief Management for Dummies  – and the circle  around him wo uld
crack up.
He n ow had a circle around him again: he’d rediscovered that pleasure.
Oh Jimmy , do  Cosmetic Sur gery for Everyone ! Do  Ac cess Y our Inner
Child ! Do  T otal W omanhood ! Do  R aising  Nutria  for Fun and Profit ! Do
The Sur vival H andbook of Dating and Sex !  And Jimmy , the ever -ready
song-and-dance man, would oblige. Sometimes he’d make up books that
didn’ t ex ist – Healing Divertic ulitis Thr ough Chanting and Prayer  was one
of his best creations – and nobody would spot the imposture.
He’d turned that paper topic into his senior dissertation, later . He’d got an
A.
 
 
There was a bullet-train connection between Martha Graham and
W atson-Crick, with only one change. Jimmy spent a lot of the three-hour
trip looking out the window at the pleeblands they were passi ng through.
Rows o f dingy houses; apartment buildings with tiny balconies, laundry
strung on the ra ilings; factories  with smoke coming out of the chimneys;gravel pits. A h uge pile of garb age, next to what he supposed was a high-
heat inc inerator . A shopping mall like the ones at HelthW yzer , only there
were cars in the parking lots instead of electric golf carts. A neon strip, with
bars and  girlie joints and what  looked like an archeological-grade movie
theatre. He glimpsed a couple of trailer parks, and wondered what it was
like to live in on e of them: just thinking about it made him sligh tly dizzy , as
he imagined a desert might, or the sea. Everything in the pleeblands seemed
so boundless, so porous, so penetrable, so wide-open. So subject to chance.
Accepted wisdo m in the Compounds said that nothing of interest went on
in th e p leeblands, apart from buying and selling: there was no life of the
mind. B uying and selling, plus a lot of criminal activity; but to Jimmy it
looked m ysterious and exciting , over there on the other side o f the safety
barriers. Also dangerous. He wouldn’ t know the ways to do things there, he
wouldn’ t know how to behave . He wouldn’ t even know how  to pick up
girls. They’d turn him upside down in no time, they’d shake his head loose.
They’d laugh at him. He’d be fodder .
 
 
The security going into W atson-Crick was very thorough, unlike the
sloppy charade that took place at Martha Graham: the fear must have been
that some fanatic would sneak  in and blow up the best minds of the
generation, thus dealing a crippling blow to something or other .  There were
dozens of CorpSeCorps men, complete with sprayguns and rubber clubs;
they had  W atson-Crick insignia , but you could tell who they really were.
They too k Jimm y’ s iris imprint and ran it through the system, and then two
surly weightlifters pulled him aside for questioning. As soon as it happened
he guessed why .
“Y ou seen your runaway mother lately?”
“No,” he said truthfully .
“Heard f rom her ? Had a phone call, another postcard?” So they were still
tracking his snail mail. All of the postcards must be stored on their
computers; plus his present whe reabouts, which was why they h adn’ t asked
where he’d come from.No again, he said. They had him hooked up to the neural-impulse
monitor so they knew he wasn’ t lying; they must also have known that the
question distressed him. He was on the ver ge of saying And if I had I
wouldn’ t tell you, apeface , b ut he was old  enough by the n to realize that
nothing would be served by tha t, and it was likely to land him on the next
bullet train back to Martha Graham, or worse.
“Know what she’ s been doing? Who she’ s hanging out with?”
Jimmy didn’ t, but he had a fe eling they themselves might have some
idea. They didn’ t mention the Happicuppa demonstration in Maryland
though, so maybe they were less informed than he feared.
“Why are you here, son?” Now they were bored. The important part was
over .
“I’m visiting an old friend for  Thanksgiving W eek,” said Jimmy . “A
friend from HelthW yzer High. He’ s a student here. I’ve been invited.” He
gave the name, and the visitor  authorization number supplied  to him by
Crake.
“What sort of a student? What’ s he taking?”
T ransgenics, Jimmy told them.
They pulled up the file to ch eck, frowned at it, looked moderately
impressed. Then  they made a cellcall, as if they hadn’ t quite be lieved him.
What was a serf like him doing visiting the nobility? their manner implied.
But finally they let him through, and there was Crake in his no-name dark
clothing, lookin g older and thinner and also smarter than ever , leaning on
the exit barrier and grinning.
“Hi there, cork-nut,” said Crake, and nostalgia swept through Jimmy like
sudden hunger . He was so pleased to see Crake he almost wept.
 
 W o l v o g s
Compared with  Martha Graham, W atson-Crick was a palace. At the
entranceway was a bronzed statue of the Institute’ s mascot, the spoat/gider
– one of the first successful splices, done in Montreal at the turn of the
century , goat crossed with spider to produce high-tensile spider silk
filaments in the milk. The ma in application nowadays was bulletproof
vests. The CorpSeCorps swore by the stuf f.
The exte nsive grounds inside the security wall were beautifully laid out:
the work, said C rake, of the JigScape Faculty . The students i n Botanical
T ransgenics (Ornamental Division) had created a whole array of drought-
and-flood-resistant tropical blends, with flowers or leaves in lurid shades of
chrome yellow and brilliant flame red and phosphorescent blue and neon
purple. The pathways, unlike the crumbling cement walks  at Martha
Graham, were smooth and wide . Students and faculty were be etling along
them in their electric golf carts.
Huge fake rocks, made from a combo-matrix of recycled plastic bottles
and plant material from giant tree cacti and various lithops – the living-
stone me mbers of the Mesembryanthemaceae – were dotted here and there.
It was a patented process, said Crake, originally developed at W atson-Crick
and now a nice little money-spinner . The fake rocks looked like real rocks
but wei ghed less; not only tha t, they absorbed water during periods of
humidity and released it in times of drought, so they acted like natural lawn
regulators. Rockulators, was the  brand name. Y ou had to avoid them during
heavy rainfalls, though, as they’d been known to explode.
But mos t of the bugs had now  been ironed out, said Crake, and new
varieties were appearing every month. The student team was thinking of
developing som ething called the Moses Model, for dependable supplies of
fresh dr inking water in times of crisis. Just Hit It W ith a Rod, was the
proposed slogan.
“How do those things work? ’ asked Jimmy , trying not to sound
impressed.
“Search me,” said Crake. “I’m not in NeoGeologicals.”“So, are  the butterflies – are th ey recent?” Jimmy asked after a while.
The one s he was looking at h ad wings the size of pancakes and were
shocking pink, and were clustering all over one of the purple shrubs.
“Y ou me an, did they occur in nature or were they created by th e hand of
man? In other words, are they real or fake?”
“Mm,” said Jimmy . He didn’ t w ant to get into the what is r eal  thing with
Crake.
“Y ou know when people get their hair dyed or their teeth d one? Or
women get their tits enlar ged?”
“Y eah?”
“After it happens, that’ s what they look like in real time. The process is
no longer important.”
“No way  fake tits feel like real t its,” said Jimmy , who thought h e knew a
thing or two about that.
“If you could te ll they were fak e,” said Crake, “it was a bad job. These
butterflies fly , they mate, they lay eggs, caterpillars come out.”
“Mm,” said Jimmy again.
 
 
Crake didn’ t have a roommate. Instead he had a suite, accented in wood
tones, w ith push-button venetian s and air conditioning that really worked. It
consisted of a la r ge bedroom, an enclosed bath and shower unit with steam
function, a main living-dining r oom with a pullout couch – that was where
Jimmy would camp out, said Crake – and a study with a built-in sound
system and a ful l array of compu-gizmos. It had maid service too, and they
picked up and delivered your laundry . (Jimmy was depressed by this news,
as he had to do his own laund ry at Martha Graham, using the clanking,
wheezy washers  and the dryer s that fried your clothes. Y ou had to slot
plastic tokens into them becaus e the machines had been jimmi ed regularly
when they’d taken coins.)
Crake also had a cheery kitchen ette. “Not that I microwave mu ch,” said
Crake. “Except for snack food. Most of us eat at our dining ha lls. There’ sone for each faculty .”
“How’ s the food?” Jimmy aske d. He was feeling more and more like a
troglodyte. Livi ng in a cave, fighting of f the body parasites, gnawing the
odd bone.
“It’ s food,” said Crake indif ferently .
 
 
On day one they toured some of the wonders of W atson-Crick. Crake was
interested in everything – all the projects that were going on. He kept
saying “W ave of the future,” which got irritating after the third time.
First the y went to Décor Botanicals, where a team of five sen iors was
developing Sma rt W allpaper that would change colour on the walls of your
room to complement your mood. This wallpaper – they told Jimmy – had a
modified form of Kirilian-ener gy-sensing algae embedded in it, along with
a sublayer of alg ae nutrients, but there were still some glitches to be fixed.
The wallpaper was short-lived in humid weather because it ate up all the
nutrients and then went grey; also it could not tell the dif feren ce between
drooling lust and murderous rage, and was likely to turn your wallpaper an
erotic pi nk when what you rea lly needed was a murky , capillary-bursting
greenish red.
That tea m was also working on a line of bathroom towels th at would
behave in much the same way , but they hadn’ t yet solved the marine-life
fundamentals: when algae got wet it swelled up and began to grow , and the
test subj ects so far had not like d the sight of their towels from the night
before puf fing up like rectangular marshmallows and inching across the
bathroom floor .
“W ave of the future,” said Crake.
Next they went to NeoAgriculturals. AgriCouture was its nickname
among the students. They had to put on biosuits before they entered the
facility , and scrub their hands an d wear nose-cone filters, because what they
were about to see hadn’ t been bioform-proofed, or not completely . A
woman with a laugh like W oody W oodpecker led them through the
corridors.“This is the latest,” said Crake.
What they were looking at was a lar ge bulblike object that seemed to be
covered with stippled whitish-yellow skin. Out of it came twenty thick
fleshy tubes, and at the end of each tube another bulb was growing.
“What the hell is it?” said Jimmy .
“Those are chickens,” said Crake. “Chicken parts. Just the breasts, on this
one. The y’ve go t ones that spec ialize in drumsticks too, twelve to a growth
unit.”
“But the re aren’ t any heads,” sa id Jimmy . He grasped the conce pt – he’d
grown up with sus multior ganifer , a fter all – but this thing was going too
far . At least the pigoons of his childhood hadn’ t lacked heads.
“That’ s the head in the middle,” said the woman. “There’ s a mouth
opening at the t op, they dump the nutrients in there. No eyes or beak or
anything, they don’ t need those.”
“This is horrible,” said Jimmy . T he thing was a nightmare. It was like an
animal-protein tuber .
“Picture the sea-anemone body plan,” said Crake. “That helps.”
“But what’ s it thinking?” said Jimmy .
The wo man gave her jocular woodpecker yodel, and explained that
they’d removed all the brain functions that had nothing to do with digestion,
assimilation, and growth.
“It’ s sort of like a chicken hookworm,” said Crake.
“No need for a dded growth hormones,” said the woman, “the high
growth rate’ s built in. Y ou get ch icken breasts in two weeks – that’ s a three-
week improvement on the most ef ficient low-light, high-density chicken
farming operatio n so far devised. And the animal-welfare freaks won’ t be
able to say a word, because this thing feels no pain.”
“Those kids are going to clean up,” said Crake after they’d left. The
students at W atson-Crick got half the royalties from anything they invented
there. Crake said it was a fierce  incentive. “ChickieNobs, they ’re thinking
of calling the stuf f.”“Are the y on the market yet?” asked Jimmy weakly . He couldn’ t see
eating a Chickie Nob. It would b e like eating a lar ge wart. But as  with the tit
implants – the good ones – maybe he wouldn’ t be able to tell the dif ference.
“They’ve already got the takeout franchise operation in place,” said
Crake. “ Investors are lining up around the block. They can undercut the
price of everyone else.”
 
 
Jimmy was becoming annoyed  by Crake’ s way of introducin g him –
“This is Jimmy , the neurotypical ” – but he knew better than to show it. Still,
it seeme d to be like calling him  a Cro-Magnon or something. Next step
they’d b e puttin g him in a cage, feeding him bananas, and poking him with
electroprods.
Nor did he think much of the W atson-Crick women on of fer . Maybe they
weren’ t even on of fer: they seemed to have other things on their minds.
Jimmy’ s few attempts at flirtatio n got him some surprised stares – surprised
and not at all pleased, as if he’d widdled on these women’ s carpets.
Considering their slovenliness, their casual approach to personal hygiene
and ador nment, they ought to ha ve fainted at the attention. Plaid  shirts were
their formal wear , hairstyles not their strong suit: a lot of them looked as if
they’d had a cl ose encounter with the kitchen shears. As a group, they
reminded him of Bernice, the God’ s Gardeners pyromaniac vegan. The
Bernice model was an exception  at Martha Graham, where the girls tried to
give the  impression they were, o r had been once, or could well be, dancers
or actres ses or singers or performance artists or conceptual ph otographers
or s omething else artistic. W illowy was their aim, style was their game,
whether they played it well or n ot. But here the Bernice look was the rule,
except t hat there were few religious T -shirts. More usual wer e ones with
complex mathematical equations on them that caused snickers a mong those
who could decode them.
“What’ s the T -shirt say?” asked  Jimmy , when he’d had one too many of
these ex periences – high-fives among the others, himself standing with the
foolish look of someone who’ s just had his pocket picked.
“That girl’ s a physicist,” said Crake, as if this explained everything.“So?”
“So, her T -shirt’ s about the eleventh dimension.”
“What’ s the joke?”
“It’ s complicated,” said Crake.
“T ry me.”
“Y ou ha ve to know about the dim ensions and how they’re supposed to be
all curled up inside the dimensions we know about.”
“And?”
“It’ s sort of like,  I can take you out of this world, but the route to  it is just
a few nanoseco nds long, and the way of measuring those n anoseconds
doesn’ t exist in our space-frame.”
“All that in symbols and numbers?”
“Not in so many words.”
“Oh.”
“I d idn’ t say it was funny ,” sa id Crake. “These are physi cists. It’ s only
funny to them. But you asked.”
“So it’ s sort of like she’ s saying they could make it together if he only
had the right kind of dick, wh ich he doesn’ t?” said Jimmy , who’d been
thinking hard.
“Jimmy , you’re a genius,” said Crake.
 
 
“This is  BioDef ences,” said Crake. “Last stop, I promise.” He could tell
Jimmy w as flag ging. The truth was that all this was too remin iscent. The
labs, the  peculiar bioforms, the socially spastic scientists – they were too
much lik e his former life, his life as a child. Which was the l ast place he
wanted to go back to. Even Martha Graham was preferable.
They were standing in front of a series of cages. Each contained a dog.
There w ere man y dif ferent breeds and sizes, but all were gazing at Jimmy
with eyes of love, all were wagging their tails.“It’ s a dog pound,” said Jimmy .
“Not quite,” said Crake. “Don’ t go beyond the guardrail, don’ t stick your
hand in.”
“They lo ok frien dly enough,” said Jimmy . His old longing for a pet came
over him. “Are they for sale?”
“They aren’ t dogs, they just loo k like dogs. They’re wolvogs – they’re
bred to deceive. Reach out to pa t them, they’ll take your hand of f. There’ s a
lar ge pit-bull component.”
“Why m ake a dog like that?” s aid Jimmy , taking a step back . “Who’d
want one?”
“It’ s a CorpSeCorps thing,” sa id Crake. “Commission work. A lot of
funding. They want to put them in moats, or something.”
“Moats?”
“Y eah. B etter th an an alarm sy stem – no way of disarming these guys.
And no way of making pals with them, not like real dogs.”
“What if they get out? Go on the rampage? Start breeding, then the
population spirals out of control – like those big green rabbits?”
“That w ould be a problem,” said Crake. “But they won’ t get ou t. Nature
is to zoos as God is to churches.”
“Meaning what? ” said Jimmy . He wasn’ t paying close attention, he was
worrying about the ChickieNobs and the wolvogs. Why is it he feels some
line has  been crossed, some b oundary transgressed? How much is too
much, how far is too far?
“Those walls and bars are there for a reason,” said Crake. “Not to keep us
out, but to keep them in. Mankind needs barriers in both cases.”
“Them?”
“Nature and God.”
“I thought you didn’ t believe in God,” said Jimmy .
“I don’ t believe in Nature either ,” said Crake. “Or not with a capital N.”
 
 H y p o t h e t i c a l
“So, you  got a girlfriend?” said Jimmy on the fourth day . H e’d been
saving t his ques tion for the right time. “I mean, there’ s quite an array of
babes to choose from.” He meant this to be ironic. He coul dn’ t picture
himself with the W oody W oodpecker–laugh girl or the ones with numbers
all over their ch ests, but he couldn’ t picture Crake with one of them either .
Crake was too suave for that.
“Not as such,” said Crake shortly .
“What do you mean, not as such ? Y ou’ve got a girl, but she’ s not a
human being?”
“Pair -bonding at this stage is not encouraged,” said Crake, sounding like
a guidebook. “W e’re supposed to be focusing on our work.”
“Bad for your health,” said Jimmy . “Y ou should get yourself fixed up.”
“Easy for you to  say ,” said Crak e. “Y ou’re the grasshopper , I’m the ant. I
can’ t waste time in unproductive random scanning.”
For the first time  in their lives, Jimmy wondered – could it be? –  whether
Crake might be jealous of him. Though maybe Crake was just being a
pompous tightas s; maybe W atson-Crick was having a bad ef fect  on him. So
what’ s the super -cer ebellum-triathlon ultralife mission?  Jim my felt like
saying. Deign to divulge? “I wouldn’ t call it a waste,” he said instead,
trying to lighten Crake up, “unless you fail to score.”
“If y ou r eally need to, you can arrange that kind of thing through Student
Services,” Crake said, rather stif fly . “They deduct the price from your
scholarship, same as room and board. The workers come in from the
pleeblands, they’re trained pro fessionals. Naturally they’re in spected for
disease.”
“Student Services? In your dreams! They do what ?”
“It makes sense,” said Crake. “As a system, it avoids the diversion of
ener gies into unproductive channels, and short-circuits malaise. The female
students have equal access, of course. Y ou can get any colour , any age –
well, alm ost. Any body type. T hey provide everything. If you’re gay or
some kind of a fetishist, they’ll fix that too.”At first Jimmy thought Crake might be joking, but he wasn’ t. Jimmy
longed to ask h im what he’d t ried – had he done a double amputee, for
instance? But all of a sudden such a question seemed intrusive. Also it
might be mistaken for mockery .
 
 
The food in Cr ake’ s faculty dining hall was fantastic – real  shrimps
instead of the CrustaeSoy they got at Martha Graham, and real chicken,
Jimmy suspected, though he avoided that because he couldn’ t for get the
ChickieNobs he’d seen; and something a lot like real cheese, though Crake
said it came from a vegetable, a new species of zucchini they were trying
out.
The desserts were heavy on the chocolate, real chocolate. The c of fee was
heavy on the co f fee. No burnt grain products, no molasses mixe d in. It was
Happicuppa, but who cared? And real beer . For sure the beer was real.
So a ll of that was a welcome change from Martha Graham , though
Crake’ s fellow students tended  to for get about cutlery and eat with their
hands, and wipe their mouths on their sleeves. Jimmy wasn’ t picky , but this
ver ged o n gross.  Also they talke d all the time, whether anyone was listening
or not, always about the ideas they were developing. Once they found
Jimmy wasn’ t working on a space  –  was attendin g, in fact, an institution
they clea rly rega rded as a mud puddle – they lost any interest in him. They
referred to other students in their own faculties as their conspecifics, and to
all other human beings as nonspecifics. It was a running joke.
So Jimmy had n o yen to mingle after hours. He was happy e nough to
hang out at Crake’ s, letting Cra ke beat him at chess or Three-D imensional
W aco, o r trying to decode Crake’ s fridge magnets, the ones that didn’ t have
numbers and symbols. W atson-Crick was a fridge-magnet culture: people
bought them, traded them, made their own.
 
 
No Brain, No Pain (with a green hologram of a brain).
Siliconsciousness.I wander from Space to Space.
W anna Meet a Meat Machine?
T ake Y our T ime, Leave Mine Alone.
Little spoat/gider , who made thee?
Life experiments like a rakunk at play .
I think, therefore I spam.
The proper study of Mankind is Everything.
 
 
Sometimes they ’d watch TV or W eb stuf f, as in the old days. The Noodie
News, brainfrizz, alibooboo, comfort eyefood like that. They’d microwave
popcorn, smoke  some of the enhanced weed the Botanical T ransgenic
students were raising in one of t he greenhouses; then Jimmy could pass out
on th e couch. After he got used to his status in this brainpound , which was
equivalent to that of a house pla nt, it wasn’ t too bad. Y ou just had to relax
and breathe into the stretch, as in workouts. He’d be out of here in a few
days. M eanwhile it was always interesting to listen to Crake, when Crake
was alone, and when he was in the mood to say anything.
 
 
On the second t o last evening, Crake said, “Let me walk you through a
hypothetical scenario.”
“I’m ga me,” sai d Jimmy . Actually he was sleepy – he’d had too much
popcorn and beer – but he sat up and put on his paying-attention look, the
one he’d perfected in high school. Hypothetical scenarios were a favourite
thing of Crake’ s.
“Axiom: that illness isn’ t productive. In itself, it generates no
commodities and therefore no money . Although it’ s an excuse for a lot of
activity , all it really does moneywise is cause wealth to flow fr om the sick
to the well. From  patients to do ctors, from clients to cure-peddlers. Money
osmosis, you might call it.”
“Granted,” said Jimmy .“Now , s uppose you’re an outfit called HelthW yzer . Suppose you make
your mo ney out of drugs and procedures that cure sick peopl e, or else –
better – that make it impossible for them to get sick in the first place.”
“Y eah?” said Jimmy . Nothing hypothetical here: that was what
HelthW yzer actually did.
“So, what are you going to need, sooner or later?”
“More cures?”
“After that.”
“What do you mean, after that?”
“After you’ve cured everything going.”
Jimmy m ade a pretence of thinking. No point doing any actual t hought: it
was a foregone  conclusion that Crake would have some lateral-jump
solution to his own question.
“Remember the plight of the dentists, after that new mouthwash  came in?
The one that replaced plaque bacteria with friendly ones that filled the same
ecological niche , namely your m outh? No one ever needed a filling again,
and a lot of dentists went bust.”
“So?”
“So, you’d need more sick peo ple. Or else – and it might be the same
thing – more diseases. New and dif ferent ones. Right?”
“Stands to reason,” said Jimmy  after a moment. It did, too. “ But don’ t
they keep discovering new diseases?”
“Not discovering,” said Crake. “They’re cr eating  them.”
“Who is?” said Jimmy . Saboteurs, terrorists, is that what Crake meant? It
was well known they went in for that kind of thing, or tried to. So far they
hadn’ t had a lot of successes: their puny little diseases had been simple-
minded, in Compound terms, and fairly easy to contain.
“HelthW yzer ,” said Crake. “Th ey’ve been doing it for years. There’ s a
whole secret unit working on nothing else. Then there’ s the distribution end.
Listen, t his is brilliant. They put the hostile bioforms into their v itamin pills
– the ir HelthW yzer over -the-cou nter premium brand, you know? They havea re ally elegant delivery syste m – they embed a virus inside a carrier
bacterium, E. coli splice, doesn ’ t get digested, bursts in the pylorus, and
bingo! R andom insertion, of course, and they don’ t have to keep on doing it
– if they did they’d get caught, because even in the pleeblands they’ve got
guys who could figure it out. Bu t once you’ve got a hostile bioform started
in the pleeb population, the wa y people slosh around out there it more or
less runs itself. Naturally they develop the antidotes at the same time as
they’re c ustomizing the bugs, but they hold those in reserve, they practise
the economics of scarcity , so they’re guaranteed high profits.”
“Are you making this up?” said Jimmy .
“The best diseases, from a business point of view ,” said Crake, “would be
those th at cause  lingering illnesses. Ideally – that is, for maximum profit –
the p atient should either get we ll or die just before all of his or her money
runs out. It’ s a fine calculation.”
“This would be really evil,” said Jimmy .
“That’ s what my father thought,” said Crake.
“He knew ?” Jimmy really was paying attention now .
“He found out. That’ s how come they pushed him of f a bridge.”
“Who did?” said Jimmy .
“Into oncoming traf fic.”
“Are you going paranoid, or what?”
“Not in the least,” said Crake. “T his is the bare-naked truth. I hacked into
my dad’ s e-mails before they deep-cleansed his computer . The evidence
he’d been collecting was all there. The tests he’d been running on the
vitamin pills. Everything.”
Jimmy felt a chill up his spine. “Who knows that you know?”
“Guess who else he told?” said Crake. “My mother and Uncle Pete. He
was going to do some whistle-blowing through a rogue W eb site – those
things have a w ide viewership, it would have wrecked the plee bland sales
of ev ery single H elthW yzer vitamin supplement, plus it would have torched
the entire scheme. It would have caused financial havoc. Think of the joblosses. He wanted to warn them first.” Crake paused. “He thought Uncle
Pete didn’ t know .”
“W ow ,” said Jimmy . “So one or the other of them . . .”
“Could have been both,” said C rake. “Uncle Pete wouldn’ t have wanted
the bottom line threatened. My mother may just have been scared, felt that
if my dad wen t down, she c ould go too. Or it could have been the
CorpSeCorps. M aybe he’d been acting funny at work. Maybe they were
checking up. He encrypted everything, but if I could hack in, so could
they .”
“That is so weird,” said Jimmy . “So they murdered your father?”
“Executed,” said Crake. “That’ s  what they’d have called it. They’d have
said he was about to destroy a n elegant concept. They’d have said they
were acting for the general good.”
The two of them sat there. Crake was looking up at the ceiling, almost as
if he admired it. Jimmy didn’ t know what else to say . W ords of comfort
would be superfluous.
Finally Crake said, “How come your mother took of f the way she did?”
“I don’ t know ,” said Jimmy . “A  lot of reasons. I don’ t want to talk about
it.”
“I bet your dad was in on something like that. Some scam like the
HelthW yzer one. I bet she found out.”
“Oh, I don’ t thin k so,” said Jim my . “I think she got involved with some
God’ s Gardeners–type outfit. S ome bunch of wackos. Anyway , my dad
wouldn’ t have . . .”
“I bet she knew they were starting to know she knew .”
“I’m really tired,” said Jimmy . He yawned, and suddenly it was true. “I
think I’ll turn in.”
 
 E x t i n c t a t h o n
On the last evening, Crake said, “W ant to play Extinctathon?”
“Extinctathon?” said Jimmy . It took him a moment, but then he
remembered it: the boring W eb  interactive with all those defu nct animals
and plants. “When was it we used to play that? It can’ t still be going.”
“It’ s nev er stopped,” said Crake. Jimmy took in the implications: Crake
had nev er stopp ed. He must’ve been playing it by himself, all these years.
W ell, he was a compulsive, no news there.
“So, how’ s your cumulative score?” he asked, to be polite.
“Once you rack up three thousand,” said Crake, “you get  to be a
Grandmaster .” W hich meant Crake was one, because he wo uldn’ t have
mentioned it otherwise.
“Oh good,” said Jimmy . “So do you get a prize? The tail and both ears?”
“Let me show you something,” said Crake. He went onto the W eb, found
the site, pulled it up. There wa s the familiar gateway: EXTINCT A THON,
Monitor ed by MaddAddam. Adam named the living animals, MaddAddam
names the dead ones. Do you want to play?
Crake clicked Y es, and entered his codename: Rednecked Crake . The
little coelacanth symbol appeared over his name, meaning Grandmaster .
Then so mething new came up, a message Jimmy had never seen before:
W elcome Grandmaster Rednecked Crake. Do you want to pla y a general
game or do you want to play another Grandmaster?
Crake clicked the second. Good. Find your playr oom. MaddAddam will
meet you ther e.
“MaddAddam is a person?” asked Jimmy .
“It’ s a group,” said Crake. “Or groups.”
“So wha t do they do, this Madd Addam?” Jimmy was feeling silly . It was
like watching some corny old spy DVD, James Bond or something.
“Besides counting the skulls and pelts, I mean.”
“W atch this.” Crake left Extinctathon, then hacked into a local pleeb
bank, and from there skipped to what looked to be a manu facturer ofsolarcar parts. He went into the  image of a hubcap, which opened into a
folder – HottT ot ts Pinups, it was titled. The files were dated, no t named; he
chose on e of them, transferred i t into one of his lily pads, used that to skip
to another , erased his footprints, opened the file there, loaded an image.
It was the pictur e of Oryx, seven  or eight years old, naked except for her
ribbons, her flowers. It was the picture of the look she’d given him, the
direct, contemptuous, knowing look that had dealt him such a blow when he
was – what? Fourteen? He still had the paper printout, folded up, hidden
deep. It was a private thing, this picture. His own private thing: his own
guilt, his own shame, his own desire. Why had Crake kept it? Stolen  it.
Jimmy f elt amb ushed. What’ s she doing her e?  he wanted to yell. That’ s
mine! Give it back!  He was in a lineup; fingers pointed at him, faces
scowled, while some rabid B ernice clone set fire to his undershorts.
Retribution was at hand, but for what? What had he done? Nothing. He’d
only looked.
Crake moved to the girl’ s left eye, clicked on the iris. It was a gateway:
the playroom opened up.
Hello, Grandmaster Crake. Enter passnumber now .
Crake did so. A new sentence popped up: Adam named the animals.
MaddAddam customizes them .
Then there was a string of e-bulletins, with places and dates –
CorpSeCorps is sue, by the look of them, marked For Secure  Addresses
Only .
A tiny parasitic wasp had invaded several ChickieNobs installations,
carrying a modified form of ch icken pox, specific to the Chic kieNob and
fatal to it. The i nstallations had  had to be incinerated before the epidemic
could be brought under control.
A new form of the common house mouse addicted to the insulation on
electric wiring had overrun Clev eland, causing an unprecedente d number of
house fires. Control measures were still being tested.
Happicuppa cof fee bean crops were menaced by a new bean weevil
found to be resistant to all known pesticides.A minia ture rod ent containing elements of both porcupine and beaver
had appe ared in the northwest, creeping under the hoods of parked vehicles
and devastating their fan belts and transmission systems.
A microbe that ate the tar in asphalt had turned several interstate
highways to sand. All interstates were on alert, and a quarantine belt was
now in place.
“What’ s going on?” said Jimmy . “Who’ s putting this stuf f out there?”
The bulletins vanished, and a fresh entry appeared. MaddAddam needs
fr esh initiatives. Got a bright idea ? Shar e with us .
Crake typed, Sorry , interruption. Must go .
Right, Grandmaster Rednecked Crake. W e’ll talk later .  Crake closed
down.
Jimmy had a co ld feeling, a feeling that reminded him of the time his
mother had left home: the same  sense of the forbidden, of a do or swinging
open that ought to be kept locked, of a stream of secret liv es, running
under ground, in the darkness just beneath his feet. “What w as all that
about?” he said. It might not be about anything, he told himself. It might be
about C rake sho wing of f. It mi ght be an elaborate setup, an invention of
Crake’ s, a practical joke to frighten him.
“I’m not  sure,” said Crake. “I thought at first they were just anot her crazy
Animal Liberati on or g. But there’ s more to it than that. I think they’re after
the machinery . They’re after the whole system, they want to shut it down.
So far they haven’ t done any people numbers, but it’ s obvious they could.”
“Y ou shouldn’ t be messing around!” said Jimmy . “Y ou don’ t w ant to be
connected! Som eone could think you’re part of it. What if you get caught?
Y ou’ll end up on brainfrizz!” He was frightened now .
“I won’ t  get caught,” said Crake . “I’m just cruising. But do me a favour
and don’ t mention this when you e-mail.”
“Sure,” said Jimmy . “But why even take the chance?”
“I’m curious, that’ s all,” said Crake. “They’ve let me into the waiting
room, b ut not any further . The y’ve got to be Compound, or Compound-
trained. These are sophisticated  bioforms they’re putting together; I don’ tthink a pleeblan der would be a ble to make anything like tha t.” He gave
Jimmy his green-eyed sideways look – a look (Snowman thinks now) that
meant trust. Crake trusted him. Otherwise he wouldn’ t have sho wn him the
hidden playroom.
“It c ould be a CorpSeCorps flytrap,” said Jimmy . The Corpsme n were in
the habi t of setting up schemes of that sort, to capture subver sives in the
making. W eedin g the pea patch, he’d heard it called. The Compounds were
said to be mined with such pot entially lethal tunnels. “Y ou need to watch
your step.”
“Sure,” said Crake.
What Jimmy really wanted to k now was: Out of all the possibilities you
had, out of all the gateways, why did you choose her?
He couldn’ t ask, though. He couldn’ t give himself away .
 
 
Something else happened during that visit; something important, though
Jimmy hadn’ t realized it at the time.
The firs t night, as he was slee ping on Crake’ s pullout sofa b ed, he’d
heard shouting. He’d thought it was coming from outside – at Martha
Graham it would have been student pranksters – but in fact it was coming
from Crake’ s room. It was coming from Crake.
More th an shouting: screaming.  There were no words. It happened every
night he was there.
“That was some dream you were having,” said Jimmy the next morning,
after the first time it happened.
“I never dream,” said Crake. His mouth was full and he was looking out
the window . For such a thin man he ate a lot. It was the speed, the high
metabolic rate: Crake burned things up.
“Everyone dreams,” Jimmy said. “Remember the REM-sleep study at
HelthW yzer High?”
“The one where we tortured cats?”
“V irtual cats, yeah. And the cats that couldn’ t dream went crazy .”“I never remember my dreams,” said Crake. “Have some more toast.”
“But you must have them anyway .”
“Okay , point taken, wrong words. I didn’ t mean I never dr eam . I’m not
crazy , therefore I must dream. H ypothesis, demonstration, conclusion, if A
then not B. Good enough?” Crake smiled, poured himself some cof fee.
So Crak e never remembered hi s dreams. It’ s Snowman that re members
them ins tead. W orse than remembers: he’ s immersed in them, he’d wading
through them, he’ s stuck in them . Every moment he’ s lived in the past few
months was dreamed first by Crake. No wonder Crake screamed so much.
 
 H i k e
After an  hour of walking, Snowman comes out from the former park. He
picks his way farther inland, heading along the trashed pleebland
boulevards and  avenues and roads and streets. W recked so larcars are
plentiful, some piled up in mu lti-vehicle crashes, some burnt out, some
standing intact as if temporarily parked. There are trucks and vans, fuel-cell
models and also the old gas or d iesel kind, and A TVs. A few bicycles, a few
motorcycles – not a bad choice  considering the traf fic mayhem that must
have lasted for d ays. On a two-wheeled item you’d have been able to weave
in and out among the lar ger vehicles until someone shot you or ran into you,
or you fell of f.
This was once a semi-residential sector – shops on the grou nd floor ,
gutted n ow; small dim apartments above. Most of the signs are s till in place
despite t he bulle t holes in them . People had hoarded the lead bullets from
the t ime before s prayguns, despi te the ban on the pleebs having any kind of
gun at all. Snowman’ s been una ble to find any bullets; not that he’d had a
rusty old firearm that would have taken them.
The buildings that didn’ t burn or explode are still standing, though the
botany is thrusting itself through every crack. Given time it will fissure the
asphalt, topple the walls, push aside the roofs. Some kind of vine is growing
everywhere, draping the windowsills, climbing in through the broken
windows and up the bars and grillwork. Soon this district will be a thick
tangle o f vegeta tion. If he’d po stponed the trip much longer th e way back
would have become impassable. It won’ t be long before all visible traces of
human habitation will be gone.
 
 
But suppose – just suppose, thinks Snowman – that he’ s not the last of his
kind. Suppose there are others. He wills them into being, these possible
remnants who might have survived in isolated pockets, cut of f by the
shutdown of the communications networks, keeping themselves alive
somehow . Monks in desert hideaways, far from contagion; mountain
goatherders who ’d never mixed with the valley people; lost tribes in the
jungles. Surviv alists who’d tuned in early , shot all com ers, sealedthemselves into their under ground bunkers. Hillbillies, recluses ; wandering
lunatics, swathed in protective hallucinations. Bands of nomads, following
their ancient ways.
How did  this happen?  their descendants will ask, stumbling upon the
evidence, the ruins. The ruinous evidence. Who made these things? Who
lived in  them? Who destr oyed them?  The T aj Mahal, the Louvre, the
Pyramids, the Empire State Building – stuf f he’ s seen on TV , in  old books,
on p ostcards, on Blood and Ro ses. Imagine coming upon them, 3-D, life-
sized, w ith no preparation – you’d be freaked, you’d run away , and after
that you’d need an explanation . At first they’ll say giants or gods, but
sooner o r later they’ll want to know the truth. Like him, they ’ll have the
curious monkey brain.
Perhaps they’ll say , These things ar e not r eal. They ar e phantasmagoria.
They wer e made by dr eams, an d now that no one is dr eaming them any
longer they ar e crumbling away .
 
 
“Let’ s suppose for the sake of ar gument,” said Crake one even ing, “that
civilization as we know it gets destroyed. W ant some popcorn?”
“Is that real butter?” said Jimmy .
“Nothing but the best at W atson -Crick,” said Crake. “Once it’ s flattened,
it could never be rebuilt.”
“Because why? Got any salt?”
“Because all the available surface metals have already been mined,” said
Crake. “ W ithout which, no iron age, no bronze age, no age of steel, and all
the rest of it. There’ s metals farther down, but the advanced technology we
need for extracting those would have been obliterated.”
“It coul d be put back together ,” said Jimmy , chewing. It was so long
since he’d tasted popcorn this good. “They’d still have the instructions.”
“Actually not,” said Crake. “It’ s  not like the wheel, it’ s too com plex now .
Suppose the instructions survive d, suppose there were any people left with
the k nowledge to read them. Those people would be few and f ar between,
and they wouldn’ t have the tools. Remember , no electricity . Then oncethose people died, that would be it. They’d have no apprentices, they’d have
no successors. W ant a beer?”
“Is it cold?”
“All it takes,” said Crake, “is the elimination of one generation. One
generation of anything. Beetles, trees, microbes, scientists, speakers of
French, whateve r . Break the lin k in time between one generat ion and the
next, and it’ s game over forever .”
“Speaking of games,” said Jimmy , “it’ s your move.”
 
 
The wal king has become an o bstacle course for Snowman: in several
places he’ s needed to make d etours. Now he’ s in a narrow  sidestreet,
choked with vines; they’ve festooned themselves across the street, from
roof to roof. Through the clefts in the overhead greenery he can see a
handful of vultures, circling idly in the sky . They can see him too, they have
eyesight like ten magnifying gl asses, those things can count the change in
your poc ket. He knows a thing or two about vultures. “Not yet,” he calls up
at them.
But why  disapp oint them? If h e were to stumble and fall, cut himself
open, kn ock him self out, then be set upon by wolvogs or pig oons, what
dif ference would it make to an yone but himself? The Crakers are doing
fine, they don’ t need him any m ore. For a while they’ll wonder  where he’ s
gone, but he’ s a lready provided  an answer to that: he’ s gone to be with
Crake. H e’ll bec ome a secondary player in their mythology , suc h as it is – a
sort of backup demiur ge. He’ ll be falsely remembered. He won’ t be
mourned.
 
 
The sun is climb ing higher , intensifying its rays. He feels light-headed. A
thick tendril slithers away , flick ering its tongue, as his foot comes down
beside it. He needs to pay more attention. Are any of the snakes  venomous?
Did that  long tail he almost step ped on have a small furry body at the front?
He didn ’ t see it clearly . He cert ainly hopes not. The claim was  that all the
snats ha d been destroyed, but it would take only one pair of them . One pair ,the A dam and Eve of snats, and some weirdo with a grudge, bidding them
go forth and multiply , relishing the idea of those things twirling up the
drainpipes. Rats  with long green scaly tails and rattlesnake fangs. He
decides not to think about that.
Instead h e begin s to hum, to cheer himself up. What’ s the song? “W inter
W onderland.” T hey used to recy cle that in the malls every Christmas, long
after the last t ime it snowed. Some tune about playing pranks on a
snowman, before it got mushed.
Maybe h e’ s not the Abominable  Snowman after all. Maybe he’ s the other
kind of snowma n, the grinning d ope set up as a joke and pushed down as an
entertainment, his pebble smile  and carrot nose an invitation to mockery
and abuse. Maybe that’ s the real him, the last Homo sapiens  – a white
illusion of a man, here today , gone tomorrow , so easily shoved over , left to
melt in the sun, getting thinner and thinner until he liquefies and trickles
away alt ogether . As Snowman is doing now . He pauses, wipes the sweat of f
his face, drinks half of his bot tle of water . He hopes there will be more
somewhere, soon.
 
 
Up ahead, the houses thin out and vanish. There’ s an interval of parking
lots and warehouses, then barbed wire strung between cement posts, an
elaborate gate of f its hinges. End of urban sprawl and pleeb city limits,
beginning of Compound turfdom. Here’ s the last station of the sealed-tunnel
bullet tr ain, with  its plastic jungle-gym colours. No risks her e , the colours
are saying. Just kiddie fun.
But this  is the dangerous part. Up to here he’ s always had something he
could climb or s cramble up or dodge around in case of a flank attack, but
now comes an open space with  no shelter and few verticals. He pulls the
sheet up over h is baseball cap to protect himself from the sun’ s glare,
shrouding himself like an Arab, and plods on, picking up the pa ce as much
as he can. He knows he’ll burn some even through the sheet if he stays out
here lon g enoug h: his best hope is speed. He’ll need to get to sh elter before
noon, when the asphalt will be too hot to walk on. 
 
Now he’ s reached the Compounds. He passes the turnof f to CryoJeenyus,
one of the smaller outfits: he’d like to have been a fly on the wall when the
lights went out and two thou sand frozen millionaires’ heads awaiting
resurrection beg an to melt in the dark. Next comes Genie-Gnomes, with the
elfin mascot popping its pointy-eared head in and out of a test tube. The
neon wa s on, he noted: the sola r hookup must still be function ing, though
not perfectly . Those signs were supposed to go on only at night.
And, finally , RejoovenEsense. Where he’d made so many mistakes,
misunderstood so much, gone on his last joyride. Bigger than Or ganInc
Farms, bigger than HelthW yzer . The biggest of them all.
He passes the f irst barricade with its crapped-out scopers and busted
searchlights, the n the checkpoint booth. A guard is lying half in, half out.
Snowman isn’ t too surprised by  the absence of a head: in tim es of crisis
emotions run high. He checks to see if the guy still has his spray gun, but no
dice.
Next comes a tract kept free of buildings. No Man’ s Land, Crak e used to
call it. No trees here: they’d mo wed down anything you could h ide behind,
divided the territory into squares with lines of heat-and-motion sensors. The
eerie ch essboard ef fect is already gone; weeds are poking up like whiskers
all over the flat surface. Snowm an takes a few minutes to scan t he field, but
apart from a cl uster of dark b irds squabbling over some object on the
ground, nothing’ s moving. Then he goes forward.
Now he’ s on the approach pro per . Along the road is a trail of objects
people must have dropped in flight, like a treasure hunt in reverse. A
suitcase, a knapsack spilling out clothes and trinkets; an overnight bag,
broken open, beside it a forlorn pink toothbrush. A bracelet; a woman’ s hair
ornament in the shape of a butterfly; a notebook, its pages soaked, the
handwriting illegible.
The fugitives must have had hope, to begin with. They must have thought
they’d h ave a use for these thin gs later . Then they’d changed their minds
and let go. 
 R e j o o v e n E s e n s e
He’ s out of breath and sweatin g too much by the time he reaches the
RejoovenEsense Compound curtain wall, still twelve feet h igh but no
longer electrifie d, its iron spike s rusting. He goes through the  outer gate,
which looks as if someone blew it apart, pausing in its shadow to eat the
chocolate ener gy  bar and drink the rest of his water . Then he continues on,
across t he moat, past the sen try boxes where the CorpSeCorps armed
guards once stood and the glass ed-in cubicles where they’d monitored the
surveillance equipment, then past the rampart watchtower with the steel
door – standing forever open, no w – where he’d once have been ordered to
present his thumbprint and the iris of his eye.
Beyond is the v ista he remembers so well: the residences laid out like a
garden s uburb w ith lar ge houses in fake Geor gian and fake T udor and fake
French p rovincial, the meander ing streets leading to the empl oyees’ golf
course and their restaurants and nightclubs and medical clinics and
shopping malls and indoor tenni s courts, and their hospitals. T o the right are
the of f-b ounds hot-bioform isolation facilities, bright orange, an d the black
cube-shaped shatterproof-glass fortresses that were the business end of
things. In the di stance is his de stination – the central park, with the top of
Crake’ s charmed  dome visible above the trees, round and white and glaring,
like a bubble of ice. Looking at it, he shivers.
But no time for pointless repining. He hikes rapidly along the main street,
stepping around  the huddles of cloth and gnawed human car casses. Not
much le ft excep t the bones: the  scavengers have done their w ork. At the
time he walked out of here this place looked like a riot scene and stank like
an abatto ir , but now all is quiet and the stench is mostly gone. The pigoons
have rooted up the lawns; their  hoofmarks are everywhere, though luckily
not too fresh.
His first  object is food. It would  make sense to go all the way along the
road to where the malls are – more chance of a square meal there – but he’ s
too hungry for that. Also he needs to get out of the sun, right now .
So h e ta kes the second left, into one of the residential sections . Already
the w eeds are thick along the curbs. The street is circular; in t he island in
the m iddle, a cl utch of shrubs, unpruned and scraggly , flares with red andpurple flowers. Some exotic splice: in a few years they’ll be overwhelmed.
Or else they’ll spread, make inroads, choke out the native plants. Who can
tell which? The whole world is now one vast uncontrolled experiment – the
way it always w as, Crake would have said – and the doctrine of unintended
consequences is in full spate.
The house he ch ooses is medium-sized, a Queen Anne. The front door ’ s
locked, but a d iamond-paned window has been smashed: so me doomed
looter must have been there before him. Snowman wonders wh at the poor
guy was looking for: food, useless money , or just a place to sleep?
Whatever it was, it wouldn’ t have done him much good.
He drink s a few handfuls of water from a stone birdbath, or namented
with wit less-looking frogs and still mostly full from yesterday’ s downpour ,
and not too muddied with bird d roppings. What disease do birds carry , and
is it in their shit? He’ll have to chance it. After splashing his fa ce and neck
he re fills his bot tle. Then he stud ies the house for signs, for movements. He
can’ t rid himself of the notion t hat someone – someone like him – is lying
in wait, around some corner , behind some half-opened door .
 
 
He takes  of f his sunglasses, kno ts them into his sheet. Then he climbs in
through the broken window , one leg and then the other , throwing his stick in
first. Now he’ s in the dimness. The hair on his arms prickles: claustrophobia
and bad ener gy are already pres sing him down. The air is thick, as if panic
has condensed in here and hasn ’ t yet had time to dissipate. It s mells like a
thousand bad drains.
“Hello!” he calls. “Anybody home?” He can’ t help it: any house speaks
to him of potential inhabitants. He feels like turning back; nausea simmers
in his throat. But he holds a corner of his rancid sheet over his nose – at
least it’ s his own smell – and makes his away across the mouldering
broadloom, past the dim shapes of the plump reproduction furniture.
There’ s a squeaking, a scurryin g: the rats have taken over . He picks his
steps with care. He knows wha t he looks like to rats: carrion o n the hoof.
They sound like real rats though, not snats. Snats don’ t squeak, they hiss.Did  squeak, did  hiss, he corrects himself. They were liquidated, they’re
extinct, he must insist on that.
First things first. He locates the liquor cabinet in the dining room and
goes through it quickly . A ha lf-bottle of bourbon; nothing else, only a
bunch of empties. No cigarettes. It must have been a non-smoking
household, or else the looter before him pinched them. “Fuck you,” he says
to the fumed oak sideboard.
Then he  tiptoes up the carpeted stairs to the second floor . Why s o quietly ,
as if he’ s a real bur glar? He c an’ t help it. Surely there are people here,
asleep. Surely they will hear him and wake up. But he knows that’ s foolish.
There’ s a man in the bathroom, sprawled on the earth-tone tiles, wearing
– what’ s  left of him – a pair of blue-and-maroon-striped pyjamas. Strange,
thinks Snowman , how in an emer gency a lot of people would head for the
bathroom. Bathr ooms were the closest things to sanctuaries in th ese houses,
places w here yo u could be alone to mediate. Also to puke, to bleed from the
eyes, to shit your guts out, to grope desperately in the medicine cabinet for
some pill that would save you.
It’ s a nice bathroom. A Jacuzzi, ceramic Mexican mermaids on the walls,
their heads crowned with flow ers, their blonde hair waving down, their
painted nipples bright pink on breasts that are small but r ounded. He
wouldn’ t mind a shower – this place probably has a gravity-flow rainwater
backup tank – but there’ s some form of hardened guck in the tub. He takes a
bar o f so ap, for later , and checks the cabinet for sunblock, with out success.
A Blyss Pluss co ntainer , half full; a bottle of aspirin, which he snags. He
thinks about adding a toothbrus h, but he has an aversion to stic king a dead
person’ s toothbr ush into his mo uth, so he takes only the toothpaste. For a
Whiter S mile, he reads. Fine with him, he needs a whiter smile , though he
can’ t at the moment think what for .
The mirror on the front of the cabinet has been smashed: some last act of
inef fectual rage, of cosmic protest – Why this ? Why me?  He can understand
that, he’d have done the same. Broken something; turned his last glimpse of
himself into fragments. Most o f the glass is in the sink, but he’ s careful
where he places his feet: like a horse, his life now depends on  them. If he
can’ t walk, he’ s rat food.He continues along the hall. The lady of the house is in the bedroom,
tucked under the king-sized pi nk and gold duvet, one arm and shoulder
blade outside the covers, bones and tendons in a leopard-skin-print nightie.
Her face  is turned away from him, which is just as well, but  her hair is
intact, al l of a piece, as if it’ s a w ig: dark roots, frosted wisps, a sort of pixie
look. On the right woman that could be attractive.
At o ne time in his life he used to go through other people’ s bureau
drawers given half the chance, but in this room he doesn’ t want to. Anyway
it wo uld be the same sort of thin g. Underwear , sex aids, costume jewellery ,
mixed in with pencil stubs, spar e change, and safety pins, and a diary if he
got lucky . When he was still in h igh school he’d liked reading girls’ diaries,
with the ir capital letters and multiple exclamation marks and extreme
phrasing – love love love , hate hate hate  – and their coloured underlining,
like the crank letters he used to get, later , at work. He’d wait till the girl was
in the shower , do a lightning-swift rummage. Of course it was his own
name he’d be searching for , though he hadn’ t always liked what he’d found.
Once he ’d read,  Jimmy you nosy brat I know your r eading this, I  hate it
just because I fu cked you doesn’ t mean I like you so  ST A Y OUT!!! T wo red
lines under hate , thr ee u nder stay out . H er name had been Brenda. Cute, a
gum-chewer , sa t in front of him in Life Skills class. She’d had a solar -
battery r obodog on her dresser th at barked, fetched a plastic bon e, and lifted
its leg to pee yellow water . It’ s always struck him how the toughest and
most bitchy girls had the s chmaltziest, squishiest doodads in their
bedrooms.
The van ity table holds the standard collection of firming creams,
hormone treatments, ampoules and injections, cosmetics, colognes. In the
half-light that comes through the slatted blinds these things gleam darkly ,
like a still life muted with varnish. He sprays himself with the stuf f in one
of th e bottles, a musky scent he hopes might cut the other sm ells in here.
Crack Cocaine, its label says in raised gold lettering. He thinks briefly
about drinking it, but remembers he has the bourbon.
Then he  bends down to take sto ck of himself in the oval mirror . He can’ t
resist the mirrors in the places h e breaks into, he sneaks a peek at himself
every chance he has. Increasingly it’ s a shock. A stranger stares back athim, bleary-eyed, hollow-cheeked, pocked with bug-bite scabs. He looks
twenty years older than he is. He winks, grins at himself, sticks out his
tongue: the ef fect is truly sinist er . Behind him in the glass the husk of the
woman in the be d seems almost like a real woman; as if at any moment she
might tu rn towa rds him, open her arms, whisper to him to come  and get her .
Her and her pixie hair .
 
 
Oryx ha d a wig like that. She l iked to dress up, change her appearance,
pretend to be dif ferent women. She’d strut around the room, do a little strip,
wiggle and pose. She said men liked variety .
“Who told you that?” Jimmy asked her .
“Oh, someone.”  Then she laughed. That was right before he scooped her
up a nd her wig fell of f . . . Jimmee!  But he can’ t af ford to think about Oryx
right now .
He f inds himself standing in th e middle of the room, hands dangling,
mouth open. “I have been unintelligent,” he says out loud.
 
 
Next do or there’ s a child’ s room, with a computer in gay red plastic, a
shelf of teddy bears, a wallpaper frieze of giraf fes, and a stash of CDs
containing – judging from the pictures on them – some extremely violent
computer games. But there’ s no child, no child’ s body . Maybe it died and
was cremated in those first few days when cremations were still taking
place; or maybe it was frightened when its parents keeled over and began
gur gling blood, and it ran away  somewhere else. Maybe it wa s one of the
cloth and bone bundles he passe d on the streets outside. Some of them were
quite small.
He l ocates the linen closet in the hall and exchanges his filthy s heet for a
fresh on e, this time not plain b ut patterned with scrolls and fl owers. That
will make an impression among the Craker kids. “Look,” they’ll say .
“Snowman is growing leaves!” They wouldn’ t put it past him . There’ s a
whole stack of clean sheets in the closet, neatly folded, but he takes only theone. He  doesn’ t  want to weight  himself down with stuf f he doesn’ t really
need. If he has to he can always come back for more.
He hears  his mother ’ s voice telli ng him to put the discarded sheet into the
laundry hamper – old neurological pathways die hard – but he d rops it onto
the floor instead and goes back downstairs, into the kitchen. He hopes he’ll
find som e canne d food there, so y stew or beans and fake wieners, anything
with pro tein in it – even some v egetables would be nice, ersatz or not, he’ll
take anything – but whoever s mashed the window also cleaned out the
cupboard. There ’ s a handful of dry cereal in a plastic snap-top c ontainer , so
he eats that; it’ s unadulterated junk-gene cardboard and he has to chew it a
lot a nd drink some water to get it down. He finds three packet s of cashew
nuts, snac-pacs from the bullet t rain, and gobbles one of them immediately;
it isn ’ t t oo stale.  There’ s also a tin of SoyOBoy sardines. Otherwise there’ s
only a half-empty bottle of ketchup, dark brown and fermenting.
He knows better than to open the refrigerator . Some of the smell in the
kitchen is coming from there.
In one of the drawers under the counter there’ s a flashlight that works. He
takes that, and a couple of candle ends, and some matches. He finds a
plastic g arbage bag, right where it should be, and puts everything into it,
including the sardines and the other two packs of cashews, and the bourbon
and the soap and aspirin. There are some knives, not very sharp;  he chooses
two, and a small cooking pot. That will come in handy if he can find
something to cook.
Down the hallway , tucked in b etween the kitchen and the util ity room,
there’ s a  small home of fice. A d esk with a dead computer , a fax, a printer;
also a container with plastic pens, a shelf with reference books – a
dictionary , a thesaurus, a Bar tlett’ s, the Norton Anthology of Modern
Poetry . T he striped-py jamas guy upstairs must have been a word person,
then: a RejoovenEsense speechw riter , an ideological plumber , a spin doctor ,
a hairsplitter for hire. Poor bugger , thinks Snowman.
Beside a vase o f withered flowers and a framed father -and-son snapshot
– the  child was a boy then, seven or eight – there’ s a telephone scratch pad.
Scrawled across  the top page are the words GET LA WN MOWED. Then,
in smaller , fainter letters, Call clinic  .  . . Th e ballpo int pen is still on thepaper , a s if dropped from a slac kening hand: it must have com e suddenly ,
right the n, the sickness and the realization of it both. Snowman can picture
the g uy figuring it out as he look ed down at his own moving hand. He must
have been an early case, or he w ouldn’ t still have been worrying about his
lawn.
The bac k of his neck prickles again. Why does he have the fe eling that
it’ s h is o wn hou se he’ s broken i nto? His own house from twent y-five years
ago, himself the missing child.
 
 T w i s t e r
Snowman makes his way through the curtained demi-light of the living
room to  the front of the house, plotting his future course. He’ll have to try
for a house richer in canned goo ds, or even a mall. He could camp out there
overnight, up on one of the top  shelving racks; that way he could take his
time, ba g only the best. Who k nows? There may still be som e chocolate
bars. Then, when he knows he’ s  covered the nutrition angle, he can head for
the bubb le-dome, pilfer the arsenal. Once he’ s got a functional spraygun in
his hands again he’ll feel a lot safer .
He throws his stick out through the broken window , then cl imbs out
himself, taking care not to rip h is new flowered sheet or cut himself or tear
his plastic bag on the jagged glass. Directly across from him on the
over grown lawn , cutting of f access to the street, there’ s a quintuplet of
pigoons, rooting around in a small heap of trash he hopes is only clothing.
A boar , two sows, two young. When they hear him they stop feeding and
lift t heir heads: t hey see him, all right. He raises his stick, shake s it at them.
Usually they bolt if he does tha t – pigoons have long memories , and sticks
look like electroprods – but th is time they stand their ground. They’re
snif fing in his direction, as if puzzled; maybe they smell the perfume he
sprayed on himself. The stuf f could have analogue mammalian sex
pheromones in it, which woul d be just his luck. T rampled to death by
lustful pigoons. What a moronic finish.
What ca n he do if they char ge? Only one option: scramble back through
the window . Does he have time for that? Despite the stubby legs carrying
their eno rmous b ulk, the damn t hings can run very fast. The kitchen knives
are i n his garbage bag; in any case they’re too short and flimsy to do much
damage to a full -sized pigoon. It would be like trying to stick a paring knife
into a truck tire.
The boar lowers its head, hunc hing its massive neck and shoulders and
swaying uneasily back and forth, making up its mind. But the others have
already begun moving away , s o the boar thinks better of it and follows
them, marking its contempt and  defiance by dropping a pile of dung as it
goes. Sn owman stands still until they’re all out of sight, then pr oceeds with
caution, looking frequently beh ind him. There are too many pigoon tracksaround here. Those beasts are clever enough to fake a retreat, then lurk
around the next corner . They’d bowl him over , trample him, then rip him
open, munch up the or gans first. He knows their tastes. A brainy and
omnivorous ani mal, the pigoon. Some of them may even h ave human
neocortex tissue growing in their crafty , wicked heads.
Y es: the re they are, up ahead. They’re coming out from behind a bush, all
five of them; no, all seven. They’re staring in his direction. It would be a
mistake to turn h is back, or to run. He raises the stick, and walk s sideways,
back in the direc tion from which he’ s come. If necessary he can take refuge
inside the checkpoint gatehouse and stay there till they go away . Then he’ll
have to find a r oundabout rout e to the bubble-dome, keeping to the side
streets, where evasion is possible.
But in the time it takes him to cover the distance, slip-stepping as if in
some gr otesque dance with the p igoons still staring, dark clouds have come
boiling up from the south, blotting out the sun. This isn’ t the usual
afternoon storm : it’ s too early , and the sky has an ominous greenish-yellow
tinge. It’ s a twister , a big one. Th e pigoons have vanished now , g one to seek
shelter .
He stands outside the checkpoint cubicle watching the storm roll forward.
It’ s a grand spectacle. He once saw an amateur documentary-maker with a
camcorder suck ed right up into one of those. He wonders how Crake’ s
Children are getting along, back  at the shore. T oo bad for Crake if the living
results o f all his theories are whirled away into the sky or swept out to sea
on a big wave. B ut that won’ t happen: in case of high seas, the breakwaters
formed by fallen rubble will protect them. As for the twister , they’ve
weathered one of those before. They’ll retreat into the central cavern in the
jumble of concrete blocks they call their thunder home and wait it out.
The adv ance winds hit, stirring up debris on the open field. L ightning
zips between the clouds. He can see the thin dark cone, zigzagging
downwards; then  darkness descends. Luckily the checkpoint is built into the
security buildin g beside it, and those things are like bunkers, thick and
solid. He ducks inside as the first rain strikes.
There’ s a shrieking of wind, a crashing of thunder , a vibrating sound as
everything still nailed down hums like a gear in a giant engine. A lar geobject h its the outer wall. He mo ves inward, through one doorway and then
another , scrabbli ng in his garbage bag for the flashlight. He’ s got it out and
is fu mbling with it when there’ s another gigantic crash, and th e overhead
lights blink on. Some previously fried solar circuit must have been refried.
He almost wishes the lights hadn’ t gone on: there’ s a couple of biosuits
of f i n the corner , with whatever ’ s left inside them in a bad sta te of repair .
Filing cabinets pulled open, pa per scattered everywhere. Loo ks as if the
guards were overwhelmed. Ma ybe they were trying to stop people from
getting out through the gates; there was an attempt to enforce a quarantine,
as he recalls. But the antisocial elements, which would have included just
about ev eryone by then, must h ave broken in and trashed the secret files.
How optimistic of them to have believed that any of the paperwork and
storage disks might still have been of use to anyone.
He force s himse lf to go over to the suits; he prods them with his stick,
turns th em over . Not as bad as he thought, not too smelly , only a few
beetles; anything  soft is mostly  gone. But he can’ t find any we apons. The
antisocials must have made of f with those, as he would have d one. As he
did do.
He l eaves the in most room, goes back to the receptionist’ s area, the part
with the counter and the desk. A ll at once he’ s very tired. He sits down in
the er gonomic chair . It’ s been a long time since he sat in a chair , and it feels
strange. He decides to set out his matches and candle ends, in case the lights
go out again; while he’ s at it he has a drink of birdbath water and the second
package of cashews. From outside comes the howling of th e wind, an
unearthly noise like a huge animal unchained and raging. Gusts  are coming
in, past the doors he’ s closed, s tirring up the dust; everything rattles. His
hands are shaking. This is gettin g to him, more than he’ s allowed himself to
admit.
What if there are rats in here? There must be rats. What if it starts to
flood? They’ll run up his legs! He pulls his legs up onto the chair , folds
them over one of the er gonomic arms, tucks the floral sheet around them.
No hope of hea ring any telltale squeaking, the racket of the storm is too
loud.A gr eat man mu st rise to meet the challenges in his life , says a voice.
Who is it this tim e? A motivational lecturer from Rejoov TV , so me fatuous
drone in a suit. A gabbler for hire. This is sur ely the lesson taught to us by
history . The higher the hur dle th e gr eater the jump. Having to face a crisis
causes you to gr ow as a person.
“I haven ’ t grown as a person, you cretin,” Snowman shouts. “Look at
me! I’ve shrunk! My brain is the size of a grape!”
But he doesn’ t know which it is, bigger or smaller , because there’ s
nobody to measure himself by . He’ s lost in the fog. No benchmarks.
 
 
The lights go out. Now he’ s alone in the dark.
“So what?” he tells himself. “Y ou were alone in the light. No big
dif ference.” But there is.
He’ s rea dy thoug h. He gets a grip. He stands the flashlight on end, strikes
a m atch in its feeble beam, manages to light a candle. It wavers in the drafty
air b ut it burns, casting a small glowing circle of soft yellow o n the desk,
turning the room around him into an ancient cave, dark but protective.
He rummages in his plastic bag , finds the third pack of cashews, rips it
open, ea ts the contents. He take s out the bottle of bourbon, thinks about it,
then uns crews th e top and drink s. Gluk gluk gluk , goes the cartoon writing
in his head. Fir ewater .
Oh sweetie , a wom an’ s voice says from the corner of the room. Y ou’r e
doing r eally well.
“No I’m not,” he says.
A puf f of air – whuf f! – hits his ears, blows out the candle. He can’ t be
bothered relight ing it, because t he bourbon is taking over . He’d rather stay
in th e d ark. He can sense Oryx drifting towards him on her soft feathery
wings. Any moment now she’ll  be with him. He sits crouched in the chair
with his head down on the desk and his eyes closed, in a state of misery and
peace.
 
 V u l t u r i z i n g
After fo ur deran ged years Jimmy graduated from Martha Graham with
his dingy little degree in Problematics. He didn’ t expect to get a job right
away , an d in this he was not dec eived. For weeks he’d parcel up  his meagre
credentials, send  them out, then get them back too quickly , sometimes with
grease spots and fingerprints from whatever sub-basement-level cog had
been flipping through them whi le eating lunch. Then he’d replace the dirty
pages and send the package out again.
He’d sn ared a summer job at th e Martha Graham library , going through
old books and earmarking them for destruction while deciding which
should remain on earth in digita l form, but he lost this post halfway through
its t erm because he couldn’ t bear to throw anything out. After that he
shacked up with his girlfriend of the moment, a conceptual artist and long-
haired brunette named Amanda Payne. This name was an invention, like
much about her: her real name was Barb Jones. She’d had to reinvent
herself, she told Jimmy , the original Barb having been so bulldozed by her
abusive, white-trash, sugar -overdosed family that she’d been n othing but a
yard-sale reject, like a wind chime made of bent forks or a three-legged
chair .
This had been h er appeal for Jim my , for whom “yard sale” was in itself
an e xotic concept: he’d wanted to mend her , do the repairs, freshen up the
paint. M ake her like new . “Y ou have a good heart,” she’d told h im, the first
time she’d let him inside her defences. Revision: overalls.
Amanda had a r undown condo in one of the Modules, shared with two
other ar tists, bo th men. The th ree of them were all from the pleeblands,
they’d g one to Martha Graham on scholarship, and they considered
themselves superior to the privileged, weak-spined, degenerate of fspring of
the Compounds,  such as Jimmy .  They’d had to be tough, take it on the chin,
battle their way . They claimed a clarity of vision that could only have come
from be ing honed on the grind stone of reality . One of the men had tried
suicide, which conferred on him  – he implied – a special vantage. The other
one had shot a lot of heroin and dealt it too, before taking up art instead, or
possibly in addition. After the first few weeks, during which he’d foundthem charismatic, Jimmy had decided these two were bullshit technicians,
in addition to which they were puf fed-up snots.
The two  who were not Amanda tolerated Jimmy , but just mar ginally . In
order to ingratiate himself with them he took a turn in the kitchen now and
then – all three of the artists sneered at microwaves and were into boiling
their ow n spaghetti – but he wasn’ t a very good cook. He made  the mistake
of b ringing home a ChickieNobs Bucket O’Nubbins one night –  a franchise
had opened around the corner , and the stuf f wasn’ t that bad if you could
for get ev erything you knew about the provenance – and after that the two of
them who were not Amanda barely spoke to him.
That didn’ t stop them from speaking to each other . They had lots to say
about all kinds of junk they claimed to know something about, and would
drone on in an  instigated way , delivering themselves of harangues and
oblique sermon s that were in  fact – Jimmy felt – aimed at himself.
According to them it had been g ame over once agriculture was i nvented, six
or seve n thousand years ago. After that, the human experiment was
doomed, first to gigantism due  to a maxed-out food supply , and then to
extinction, once all the available nutrients had been hoovered up.
“Y ou’ve got the answers?” sai d Jimmy . He’d come to enjoy  needling
them, be cause w ho were they to  judge? The artists, who were not sensitized
to ir ony , said tha t correct analysis was one thing but correct sol utions were
another , and the lack of the latter did not invalidate the former .
Anyway , maybe there weren’ t any solutions. Human society , they
claimed, was a sort of monster , its main by-products being corpses and
rubble. It never learned, it made the same cretinous mistakes over and over ,
trading short-ter m gain for long- term pain. It was like a giant slug eating its
way relentlessly  through all the  other bioforms on the planet, grinding up
life on earth and shitting it out the backside in the form o f pieces of
manufactured and soon-to-be-obsolete plastic junk.
“Like your computers?” murmu red Jimmy . “The ones you do  your art
on?”
Soon, sa id the artists, ignoring  him, there would be nothing left but a
series of long subterranean tubes covering the surface of the planet. The air
and ligh t inside  them would be  artificial, the ozone and oxyge n layers ofPlanet Earth having been totally destroyed. People would creep along
through this tubing, single file, stark naked, their only view the asshole of
the one before them in the line , their urine and excrement flo wing down
through vents in the floor , until they were randomly selected by a
digitalized mechanism, at whic h point they would be sucked  into a side
tunnel, g round u p, and fed to the others through a series of ni pple-shaped
appendages on the inside of the  tube. The system would be sel f-sustaining
and perpetual, and would serve everybody right.
“So, I guess that would do away with war ,” said Jimmy , “and  we’d all
have very thick kneecaps. But w hat about sex? Not so easy , packed into a
tube like  that.” Amanda shot him a dirty look. Dirty , but com plicit: you
could tell the same question had occurred to her .
 
 
Amanda herself wasn’ t very talkative. She was an image person, not a
word pe rson, sh e said: she claimed to think in pictures. That was fine with
Jimmy , because a bit of synesthesia never went amiss.
“So what do you  see when I do this?” he’d ask her , in their earl iest, most
ardent days.
“Flowers,” she’d say . “T wo or three. Pink.”
“How about this? What do you see?”
“Red flowers. Red and purple. Five or six.”
“How about this? Oh baby I love you!”
“Neon!” Afterwards she would sigh, and tell him, “That was the whole
bouquet.”
He was suscepti ble to those invi sible flowers of hers: they were after all a
tribute to his talents. She had a very fine ass too, and the tits were real, but –
and he’d noticed this early – she was a little flinty around the eyes.
Amanda was from T exas, origin ally; she claimed to be able to r emember
the p lace before it dried up and  blew away , in which case, thought Jimmy ,
she was about ten years older than she made out. She’d been working for
some time on a  project called V ulture Sculptures. The idea was to take atruckload of lar ge dead-animal parts to vacant fields or the parking lots of
abandoned facto ries and arrange them in the shapes of words, w ait until the
vultures had descended and were tearing them apart, then photograph the
whole scene from a helicopter . She’d attracted a lot of publicity at first, as
well as a few sacks of hate mail and death threats from the God’ s
Gardeners, and from isolated crazies. One of the letters was from Jimmy’ s
old dorm roommate, Bernice, who’d cranked her rhetorical volume up
considerably .
Then some wrinkly , corrupt old  patron who’d made a couple of fortunes
out of a string of heart-parts farms had given her a hefty grant, under the
illusion that what she was doing was razor -sharp cutting-edge. This was
good, said Amanda, because wi thout that chunk of change she would have
had to abandon her artwork: he licopters cost a lot of money , and then of
course t here was the security c learance. The Corpsmen were really anal
about airspace, she said; they suspected everyone of wanting t o nuke stuf f
from abo ve, and  you practically had to let them climb into your  underpants
before th ey’d let you fly anywh ere in a hired copter , unless you were some
graft-ridden prince from a Compound, that is.
The wor ds she vulturized – her term – had to have four letters. She gave
a great deal of thought to them: each letter of the alphabet had a vibe, a plus
or minu s char ge , so the words  had to be selected with care. V ulturizing
brought them to life, was her concept, and then it killed them. It was a
powerful proces s – “Like watching God thinking,” she’d said on a Net
Q&A. S o far she’d done P AIN – a pun on her last name, as she’d pointed
out in chat-room interviews – and WHOM, and then GUTS. She was
having a  hard time during the s ummer of Jimmy because she w as blocked
on the next word.
Finally , when Jimmy didn’ t think he could stand any more boiled
spaghetti, and the sight of Amanda staring into space while chewing on a
strand of her hair no longer brought on an attack of lust and  rapture, he
landed a  job. It was with an outfit called AnooY oo, a minor Compound
situated so close to one of the more dilapidated pleeblands that  it might as
well have been in it. Not too m any people would work there if  they’d had
other choices, was what he felt o n the day he went for the interview; which
might have accounted for the sli ghtly abject manner of the inter viewers. Hecould be t they’d  been rejected by a dozen or two job-hunters before him.
W ell, he  beamed at them telepat hically , I may not be what you h ad in mind,
but at least I’m cheap.
What had impressed them, sai d the interviewers – there were two of
them, a woman and a man – wa s his senior dissertation on self-help books
of the twentieth century . One of their core products, they told h im, was the
improvement ite ms – not book s any more, of course, but the DVDs, the
CD-ROMs, the W eb sites, and so forth. It wasn’ t these instructionals as
such that generated the cash surplus, they explained: it was the equipment
and the alternative medicines you needed in order to get the optimum ef fect.
Mind an d body went hand in ha nd, and Jimmy’ s job would be  to work on
the mind end of things. In other words, the promotionals.
“What people want is perfection,” said the man. “In themselves.”
“But they need the steps to it to be pointed out,” said the woman.
“In a simple order ,” said the man.
“W ith encouragement,” said the woman. “And a positive attitude.”
“They li ke to hear about the bef ore and the after ,” said the man. “It’ s the
art of the possible. But with no guarantees, of course.”
“Y ou sh owed great insight into the process,” the woman said. “In your
dissertation. W e found it very mature.”
“If you know one century , you know them all,” said the man.
“But the  adjectives change,” said Jimmy . “Nothing’ s worse than last
year ’ s adjectives.”
“Exactly!” said the man, as if Jimmy had just solved the riddle of the
universe in one blinding flashbulb of light. He got a fing er -cracking
handshake from  the man; from  the woman he got a warm bu t vulnerable
smile, which left him wondering whether or not she was married. The pay
at AnooY oo wasn’ t that great, but there might be other advantages.
 
 
That evening he told Amanda Payne about his good fortune. She’d been
carping about money lately – or not carping, but she’d inserted a fewpointed remarks  about pulling your own weight into the pro longed and
intent si lences t hat were her sp ecialty – so he thought she’d be pleased.
Things hadn’ t been that good in the sack lately , ever since his ChickieNobs
blunder , in fact. Maybe they’d p ick up now , in time for a heartfe lt, plangent,
and acti on-filled finale. Already  he was rehearsing his exit lines: I’m not
what you need, you deserve be tter , I’ll ruin your life , and  so forth. But it
was best to work up to these things, so he elaborated on his new job.
“Now I’ ll be able to bring home the bacon,” he concluded in what he
hoped was a winsome but responsible tone.
Amanda wasn’ t impressed. “Y ou’re going to work where?” was her
comment; point being, as it un folded, that AnooY oo was a c ollection of
cesspool denizens who existed for no other reason than to prey on the
phobias and void the bank accounts of the anxious and the gullible. It
seemed that Amanda, until rece ntly , had had a friend who’d signed up for
an A nooY oo five-month plan, touted as being able to cure depression,
wrinkles, and insomnia all at the same time, and who’d pushed herself over
the edge – actually , over the windowsill of her ten-storey-up apartment – on
some kind of South American tree bark.
“I could  always  turn them dow n,” said Jimmy , when this tale had been
told. “I could join the ranks o f the permanently unemployed . Or , hey , I
could go on being a kept man, like now . Joke! Joke! Don’ t kill me!”
Amanda was more silent than ever for the next few days. Then she told
him she’d unblocked herself artistically: the next key word for  the V ulture
Sculpture had come to her .
“And what’ s that?” said Jimmy , trying to sound interested.
She looked at him speculatively . “Love,” she said.
 
 A n o o Y o o
Jimmy m oved into the junior apartment provided for him in the AnooY oo
Compound: bedroom in an alcove, cramped kitchenette, reproduction 1950s
furniture. As a dwelling place it was only a small step up from his dorm
room at Martha Graham, but at least there was less insect life. He
discovered quite soon that, corporately speaking, he was a drudge and a
helot. He was to cudgel his brains and spend ten-hour days wandering the
labyrinths of the thesaurus and c ranking out the verbiage. Then those above
would grade his of ferings, han d them back for revision, hand them back
again. What we want is mor e . . . is less . . . that’ s not quite it.  But  wit h time
he improved, whatever that meant.
Cosmetic creams, workout equipment, Joltbars to build your muscle-
scape into a br eathtaking marvel of sculpted granite. Pills to make you
fatter , th inner , ha irier , balder , whiter , browner , blacker , yellower , sexier , and
happier . It was h is task to describe and extol, to present the visio n of what –
oh, so easily! – c ould come to be. Hope and fear , desire and revulsion, these
were his stocks-in-trade, on these he rang his changes. Once in a while he’d
make up a wor d – tensicity , fibracionous , pher omonimal  – but he never
once got  caught out. His proprietors liked those kinds of words in the small
print on packages because they  sounded scientific and had a  convincing
ef fect.
He sho uld have been pleased by his success with these verbal
fabrications, but  instead he was depressed by it. The memos that came from
above telling him he’d done a good job meant nothing to him because
they’d been dictated by semi-literates; all they proved was that no one at
AnooY oo was capable of apprec iating how clever he had been. He came to
understand why serial killers sent helpful clues to the police.
His social life was – for the first time in many years – a zero: he hadn’ t
been str anded in  such a sexual  desert since he was eight. Amanda Payne
shimmered in the past like a lost lagoon, its crocodiles for the moment
for gotten. Why had he abando ned her so casually? Because he’d been
looking forward  to the next in t he series. But the woman interv iewer from
AnooY oo about whom he’d had such hopes was never seen again, and the
other women he encountered, at the of fice or in the AnooY oo bars, wereeither mean-minded eye-the-tar get sharks or so emotionally starved even
Jimmy a voided them as if they were quagmires. He was reduce d to flirting
with waitpersons, and even they turned a cold shoulder . They’d seen fast-
talking youngsters like him before, they knew he had no status.
In the company  café he was a n ew boy , alone once more, star ting over .
He took to eating SoyOBoy bur gers in the Compound mall, or taking out a
greasy b ox of ChickieNobs Nubbins to munch on while working overtime
at his computer terminal. Every week there was a Compound social
barbecue, a comprehensive rat fuck that all employees were expected to
attend. These were dire occasions for Jimmy . He lacked the ener gy to work
the crow d, he was fresh out of innocuous drivel; he loitered o n the edges
gnawing on a b urned soydog and silently ripping apart everyone within
eyesight. Saggy boobs , ran the thought balloon in his head. Bunfaced
tofubrain. Thumbsucking posterboy . Fridgewoman. Sell his granny .
W obble-bummed bovine. Bladder headed jerk.
He g ot the occas ional e-mail from his father; an e-birthday card  perhaps,
a few  da ys later  than his real birthday , something with dancing  pigoons on
it, as if he were still eleven. Happy Birthday , Jimmy , May All Y our Dr eams
Come T rue . R amona would write him ch atty , dutiful messages: no baby
brother for him yet, she’d say , but they were still “working on it.” He did
not wish to vi sualize the hormone-sodden, potion-ridden, gel-slathered
details o f such work. If nothing “natural” happened soon, she said, they’d
try “something else” from on e of the agencies – Infantad e, Foetility ,
Perfectababe, on e of those. Th ings had changed a lot in the field since
Jimmy c ame alo ng! ( Came along , as if he hadn’ t actually been born, but
had just  sort of dropped by fo r a visit.) She was doing her “research,”
because of course they wanted the best for their money .
T errific, though t Jimmy . They’d have a few trial runs, and if  the kids
from those didn’ t measure up th ey’d recycle them for the parts,  until at last
they got  something that fit all their specs – perfect in every way , not only a
math whiz but beautiful as the dawn. Then they’d load this h ypothetical
wonderkid up with their bloated expectations until the poor tyke  burst under
the strain. Jimmy didn’ t envy him.
(He envied him.)Ramona invited Jimmy for the h olidays, but he had no wish to go, so he
pleaded overwo rk. Which was the truth, in a way , as he’d com e to see his
job as a challenge: how outrag eous could he get, in the realm of fatuous
neologism, and still achieve praise?
 
 
After a while he was granted a promotion. Then he could buy n ew toys.
He got himself a better DVD pla yer , a gym suit that cleaned itself overnight
due to sweat-eat ing bacteria, a sh irt that displayed e-mail on its sleeve while
giving h im a little nudge every time he had a message, shoes that changed
colour to  match  his outfits, a talking toaster . W ell, it was company . Jimmy ,
your toast is done.  He upgraded to a better apartment.
Now that he was climbing up the ladder he found a woman, and then
another one, and another one after that. He no longer thought of these
women as girlfriends: now they were lovers. They were all married or the
equivalent, looking for a chance to sneak around on their husbands or
partners, to prove they were still young or else to get even. Or else they
were wounded and wanted consolation. Or they simply felt ignored.
There w as no reason he couldn’ t have several of them at once, a s long as
he was conscientious about his scheduling. At first he enjoyed  the rushed
impromptu visits, the secrecy , the sound of V elcro ripped open in haste, the
slow tumbling onto the floor; th ough he figured out pretty soon that he was
an e xtra for these lovers – not to be taken seriously , but in stead to be
treasured like some child’ s free gift dug out of a box of cereal, colourful and
delightful but useless: the joke r among the twos and threes they’d been
dealt in their rea l lives. He was merely a pastime for them, as they were for
him, though for them there was more at stake: a divorce, or a sp ate of non-
routine violence; at the least, a dollop of verbal uproar if they got caught.
One goo d thing, they never told  him to grow up. He suspected they kind
of liked it that he hadn’ t.
None of  them wanted to leave t heir husbands and settle down w ith him,
or to run away to the pleeblands with him, not that this was very possible
any more. The pleeblands were  said to have become ultra-ha zardous forthose who didn’ t know their way around out there, and the C orpSeCorps
security at the Compound gates was tighter than ever .
 
 G a r a g e
So this was the rest of his life. It felt like a party to which he’d been
invited, but at a n address he couldn’ t actually locate. Someo ne must be
having fun at it, this life of his; only , right at the moment, it wasn’ t him.
His body  had always been easy to maintain, but now he had to w ork at it.
If he skipped the gym he’d develop flab overnight, where none was before.
His ener gy level was sinking, and he had to watch his Joltbar intake: too
many steroids could shrink your dick, and though it said on the package that
this prob lem had been fixed due to the addition of some unpro nounceable
patented compound, he’d written enough package copy not to believe this.
His hair  was getting sparser around the temples, despite the six-week
AnooY oo follicle-regrowth course he’d done. He ought to hav e known it
was a scam – he’d put together the ads for it – but they were su ch good ads
he’d convinced even himself. He found himself wondering what shape
Crake’ s hairline was in.
Crake h ad graduated early , done post-grad work, then written his own
ticket. He was at RejoovenEs ense now – one of the most powerful
Compounds of them all – and c limbing fast. At first the two of them had
continued to keep in touch by e-mail. Crake spoke vaguely of a special
project he was d oing, something white-hot. He’d been given carte blanche,
he said; the sun shone out of his bum as far as the top brass were concerned.
Jimmy s hould come and visit sometime and he’d show him around. What
was it that Jimmy was doing, again?
Jimmy countered with a suggestion that they play chess.
Crake’ s next news was that Un cle Pete had died suddenly . Some virus.
Whatever it was had gone through him like shit through a goose. It was like
watching pink sorbet on a bar becue – instant meltdown. Sabotage was
suspected, but nothing had been proved.
W er e you ther e?  asked Jimmy .
In a manner of speaking , said Crake.
Jimmy pondered this; then he asked if anyone else had caught the virus.
Crake said no.As t ime went by , the intervals between their messages became lo nger and
longer , the thread connecting the m stretched thinner . What did t hey have to
say to each other? Jimmy’ s wordserf job was surely one that C rake would
despise, though af fably , and Crake’ s pursuits might not be something
Jimmy c ould un derstand any more. He realized he was thinking  of Crake as
someone he used to know .
 
 
Increasingly he was restless. Ev en sex was no longer what it had once
been, though he was still as addicted to it as ever . He felt jerked around by
his own dick, as if the rest of hi m was merely an inconsequential knob that
happened to be attached to one end of it. Maybe the thing would be happier
if left to roam around on its own.
On the evenings when none of his lovers had managed to lie to their
husbands or equivalents well en ough to spend time with him, he might go
to a movie at the mall, just to convince himself he was part of a group of
other pe ople. Or he’d watch the news: more plagues, more famines, more
floods, more insect or microbe o r small-mammal outbreaks, more droughts,
more ch ickenshit boy-soldier wars in distant countries. Why was everything
so much like itself?
There were the usual political assassinations out there in the pleebs, the
usual strange accidents, the une xplained disappearances. Or there were sex
scandals: sex scandals always g ot the newscasters excited. For a while it
was spor ts coaches and little boy s; then there was a wave of ado lescent girls
found lo cked in garages. These girls were said – by those who h ad done the
locking – to be working as maids, and to have been brought  from their
squalid countries-of-origin for t heir own good. Being locked in the garage
was for the pro tection of these girls, said the men – respe ctable men,
accountants, lawyers, merchants dealing in patio furniture –  who were
dragged into court to defend t hemselves. Frequently their wives backed
them up . These girls, said the wi ves, had been practically adopted, and were
treated almost like one of the family . Jimmy loved those two words:
practically , almost .The girl s themselves told other stories, not all of them credible. They’d
been drugged, said some. They’d been made to perform obscene
contortions in unlikely venues, such as pet shops. They’d been rowed across
the P acific Ocean on rubber raft s, they’d been smuggled in container ships,
hidden in mounds of soy p roducts. They’d been made to commit
sacrilegious acts  involving reptiles. On the other hand, some of these girls
seemed content with their situations. The garages were nice, they said,
better th an wha t they’d had at home. The meals were regular . The work
wasn’ t too hard. It was true they weren’ t paid and they coul dn’ t go out
anywhere, but there was nothing dif ferent or surprising to them about that.
One of these gi rls – found lock ed in a garage in San Francisco, at the
home of a prosperous pharmacist – said she used to be in movies, but was
glad she’d been sold to her Mister , who had seen her on the Net and had felt
sorry for  her , and had come in p erson to fetch her and had paid a lot of cash
to re scue her , and had flown with her on a plane across the oce an, and had
promised to send her to school once her English was good e nough. She
refused to say an ything negative  about the man; she appeared to be simple,
truthful, and sincere. When asked why the garage was locked, she said it
was so nobody bad could get in.  When asked what she did in there, she said
she stud ied Eng lish and watched TV . When asked how she felt about her
captor , s he said she would always be grateful to him. The prosec ution failed
to shake her testimony , and the guy got of f scot-free, although he was
ordered to send her to school i mmediately . She said she wanted to study
child psychology .
There was a close-up of her , of her beautiful cat’ s face, her delicate smile.
Jimmy thought he recognized h er . He froze her image, then unpacked his
old printout, the one from whe n he was fourteen – he’d kept it with him
through all his moves, almost l ike a family photo, out of sight but never
discarded, tucked in among his Martha Graham Academy transcripts. He
compared the faces, but a lot of time had gone by since then. That girl, the
eight-year -old i n the printout, must be seventeen, eighteen, nineteen by
now , an d the one from the news broadcast seemed a lot youn ger . But the
look wa s the same: the same blend of innocence and contempt and
understanding. It made him feel light-headed, precariously balanced, as ifhe were standing on a clif f-edge above a rock-filled gor ge, and it would be
dangerous for him to look down.
 
 G r i p l e s s
The CorpSeCorps had never lost sight of Jimmy . During hi s time at
Martha Graham they’d hauled him in regularly , four times a year , for what
they called little talks . They’d ask him the same questions they’d already
asked a dozen times, just to see  if they got the same answers. I don’ t know
was the safest t hing Jimmy could think of to say , which most of the time
was accurate enough.
After a while they’d taken to showing him pictures – stills from
buttonhole snoop cameras, or black-and-whites that looked as if they’d been
pulled of f the se curity videocams at pleebland bank A TMs, or ne ws-channel
footage of this o r that: demonstrations, riots, executions. The game was to
see i f he  recogn ized any of the faces. They’d have him wired up , so even if
he pretended ignorance they’d catch the spikes of neural electricity he
wouldn’ t be able to control. He’d kept waiting for the Happicuppa caper in
Maryland to turn up, the one wi th his mother in it – he dreaded that – but it
never showed.
He hadn’ t received any foreign postcards for a long time.
 
 
After he’d gone to work at AnooY oo, the Corpsmen appeared to have
for gotten about him. But no, they were just paying out the rope – seeing if
he, or else the other side, meaning his mother , would use his ne w position,
his d ollop of ext ra freedom, to tr y to make contact again. After a year or so,
there wa s the familiar knocking  on the door . He always knew it was them
because they never used the intercom first, they must have had some kind
of bypass, not to mention the door code. Hello, J immy , how ya doing, w e
just need to ask you a few questions, see if you can help us out a little her e.
Sur e, be glad to.
Attaboy .
And so it went.
In – what? – his fifth year at AnooY oo, they finally hit pay d irt. He’d
been loo king at their pictures for a couple of hours by then.  Shots of a
boondocks war in some arid mo untain range across the ocean, with close-ups of dead mercenaries, male and female; a bunch of aid wor kers getting
mauled by the starving in one of those dusty famines far away; a row of
heads on poles – that was in the ex-Ar gentine, said the Co rpSeCorps,
though t hey did n’ t say whose heads they were or how they’d got onto the
poles. S everal women going through a supermarket check out, all in
sunglasses. A dozen bodies spr awled on the floor after a raid on a God’ s
Gardeners safe house – that ou tfit was outlawed now – and one of them
sure looked a lo t like his old roomie, the incendiary Bernice. He said so,
being a good boy , and got a pat on the back, but obviously they’d known
that already because they were n’ t interested. He felt bad abo ut Bernice:
she’d been a nut and a nuisance, but she hadn’ t deserved to die like that.
A li neup of mu g shots from a Sacramento prison. The driver ’ s licence
photo fr om a suicide car -bomb er . (But if the car had blown up, how had
they com e by the licence?) Three pantiless waitresses from a pleebland no-
touching nookie bar – they threw that in for fun, and it did cause a waver on
the neural monitor , unnatural if it hadn’ t, and smiles and chuckles all round.
A rio t scene Jim my recognized from a movie remake of Frankenstein . They
always put in a few tricks like that to keep him on his toes.
Then more mug shots. Nope , said Jimmy . Nope, nope, nothing .
Then came what looked like a routine execution. No horseplay , no
prisoners breaking free, no foul language: by this Jimmy knew before he
saw her that it was a woman the y were erasing. Then came the figure in the
loose grey prison clothing shuf fling along, hair tied back, wrists
handcuf fed, the female guard to either side, the blindfold. Shooting by
spraygun, it was going to be. No need for a firing squad, one spraygun
would h ave don e, but they kept  the old custom, five in a row , so no single
executioner need lose sleep over whose virtual bullet had killed first.
Shooting was only for treason. Otherwise it was gas, or hanging, or the
big brainfrizz.
A m an’ s voice, words coming f rom outside the shot: the Corpsmen had
the sound turned down because  they wanted Jimmy to concen trate on the
visuals, but it must have been an order because now the guards were taking
of f the blindfold. Pan to close-up: the woman was looking right at him,
right out of the frame: a blue-eyed look, direct, defiant, patient, wounded.But no tears. T hen the sound came suddenly up. Goodbye. Remember
Killer . I love you. Don’ t let me down.
No ques tion, it was his mother . Jimmy was shocked by how old she’d
become: her skin was lined, her mouth withered. W as it the hard living
she’d been doing on the run, or was it bad treatment? How long had she
been in prison, in their grip? What had they been doing to her?
W ait , h e wanted to yell, but that was that, pullback shot, eyes cov ered
again, za p zap zap. Bad aim, red spurts, they almost took her hea d of f. Long
shot of her crumpling to the ground.
“Anything there, Jimmy?”
“Nope. Sorry . Nothing.” How could she have foreseen he’d be looking?
They must have picked up the heartbeat, the sur ge of ener gy . A fter a few
neutral question s – “W ant a cof fee? Need a leak?” – one of them said, “So,
who was this killer?”
“Killer ,” Jimmy  said. He began  to laugh. “Killer was a skunk.” There,
he’d done it. Another betrayal. He couldn’ t help himself.
“Not a nice guy , eh? Some sort of biker?”
“No,” sa id Jimm y , laughing more. “Y ou don’ t get it. A skunk. A  rakunk.
An anim al.” He put his head down on his two fists, weeping w ith laughter .
Why did she ha ve to drag Killer into it? So he’d know it was really her ,
that’ s w hy . So he’d believe her . But what did she mean about letting her
down?
“Sorry about that, son,” said the  older of the two Corpsmen. “W e just had
to be sure.”
It di dn’ t occur to Jimmy to as k when the execution had tak en place.
Afterwards, he realized it migh t have been years ago. What if the whole
thing wa s a fake? It could even have been digital, at least the shots, the
spurts of blood, the falling down. Maybe his mother was still alive, maybe
she was even still at lar ge. If so, what had he given away?
 
 The nex t few weeks were the wo rst he could remember . T oo ma ny things
were co ming back to him, too much of what he’d lost, or – sadder – had
never ha d in the first place. All  that wasted time, and he didn’ t even know
who’d wasted it.
He was angry most days. At firs t he sought out his various lovers, but he
was mo ody wit h them, he faile d to be entertaining, and wors e, he’d lost
interest in the sex. He stopped  answering their e-messages – Is anything
wr ong, w as it something I did, how can I help  – and didn’ t ret urn their calls:
explaining wasn ’ t worth it. In earlier days he would have made h is mother ’ s
death in to a psychodrama, harvested some sympathy , but that wasn’ t what
he wanted now .
What did he want?
He wen t to the Compound singles bar; no joy there, he alrea dy knew
most of those w omen, he didn’ t need their neediness. He went back to
Internet porn, found it had lost its bloom: it was repetitive, mechanical,
devoid of its ea rlier allure. He searched the W eb for the Ho ttT otts site,
hoping t hat som ething familiar would help him to feel less isolated, but it
was defunct.
He was drinking alone now , at night, a bad sign. He shouldn’ t  be doing
that, it only depressed him, but he had to dull the pain. The pa in of what?
The pain of th e raw torn places, the damaged membranes where he’d
whanged up against the Great In dif ference of the Universe. One big shark’ s
mouth, the universe. Row after row of razor -sharp teeth.
He knew  he was faltering, trying to keep his footing. Everything in his
life was tempora ry , ungrounded. Language itself had lost its sol idity; it had
become thin, contingent, slippery , a viscid film on which he was sliding
around like an e yeball on a plat e. An eyeball that could still see, however .
That was the trouble.
He r emembered  himself as carefree, earlier , in his youth. Carefr ee, thick-
skinned, skippin g light-footed over the surfaces, whistling in the dark, able
to get through anything. T urn ing a blind eye. Now he found himself
wincing away . The smallest setbacks were major – a lost sock, a jammed
electric toothbrush. Even the sunrise was blinding. He was bein g rubbed allover with sandpaper . “Get a grip,” he told himself. “Get a handle on it. Put
it behind you. Move forward. Make a new you.”
Such positive slogans. Such bland inspirational promotions vomit. What
he really wanted was revenge. B ut against whom, and for what?  Even if he
had the ener gy for it, even if he could focus and aim, such a thing would be
less than useless.
 
 
On the worst ni ghts he’d call u p Alex the parrot, long dead by then but
still wal king and talking on the  Net, and watch him go through his paces.
Handler: What colour is the r ound ball, Alex? The r ound  ball ?  Alex, head
on s ide, thinking: Blue . Handler: Good boy!  Alex: Cork-nut, cork-nut!
Handler: Ther e you ar e!  T hen Alex wo uld be given a cob of baby corn,
which w asn’ t w hat he’d asked for , he’d asked for an almond. Seeing this
would bring tears to Jimmy’ s eyes.
Then he’d stay up too late, and once in bed he’d stare at the ceiling,
telling o ver his lists of obsolet e words for the comfort that was in them.
Dibble. Aphasia. Br east plough . Enigma. Gat.  I f Alex  the parrot were his,
they’d be friends, they’d be bro thers. He’d teach him more w ords. Knell.
Kern. Alack.
But ther e was no longer any comfort in the words. There was n othing in
them. It no long er delighted Jimmy to possess these small co llections of
letters th at othe r people had fo r gotten about. It was like havi ng his own
baby teeth in a box.
At th e e dge of sleep a procession would appear behind his eyes , moving
out of the shado ws to the left, crossing his field of vision. Y oung slender
girls with small hands, ribbons  in their hair , bearing garlands of many-
coloured flower s. The field wou ld be green, but it wasn’ t a pas toral scene:
these were girls in danger , in need of rescue. There was something – a
threatening presence – behind the trees.
Or p erhaps the danger was in him. Perhaps he was the danger ,  a fanged
animal gazing out from the shadowy cave of the space inside his own skull.Or it might be the girls themselves that were dangerous. There was
always that possibility . They could be a bait, a trap. He knew they were
much older than they appeared to be, and much more powerful as well.
Unlike himself they had a ruthless wisdom.
The girls were c alm, they were grave and ceremonious. They’ d look at
him, the y’d look  into him, they would recognize and accept him , accept his
darknesses. Then they would smile.
Oh honey , I know you. I see you. I know what you want.
 
 P i g o o n s
Jimmy’ s in the kitchen of the house they lived in when he was five,
sitting at the table. It’ s lunchtime. In front of him on a plate is a round of
bread – a flat peanut butter head with a gleaming jelly smile, raisins for
teeth. T his thin g fills him with  dread. Any minute now his mother will
come in to the room. But no, sh e won’ t: her chair is empty . She must have
made his lunch and left it for him. But where has she gone, where is she?
There’ s a scraping sound; it’ s coming from the wall. There’ s someone on
the othe r side, digging a hole th rough, breaking in. He looks at  that part of
the wall, below the clock with the dif ferent birds marking the hours. Hoot
hoot hoot , say s th e robin. He’d done that, he’d altered the clock – the o wl
says caw caw , the crow says cheerup, cheerup . Bu t that clock wasn’ t there
when he  was five, they’d got it later . Something’ s wrong, the time’ s wrong,
he c an’ t tell wh at it is, he’ s paralyzed with fright. The plaste r begins to
crumble, and he wakes up.
He hates  these dreams. The present’ s bad enough without the past getting
mixed in to it. Live in the moment . He’d put that on a giveaway calendar
once, some fraudulent sex-enhancement product for women. Why chain
your body to the clock, you can break the shackles of time, and so on and so
forth. The picture was of a wom an with wings, taking flight from a pile of
dirty old wrinkled cloth, or possibly skin.
So here it is then, the moment, this one, the one he’ s supposed to be
living in. His head’ s on a hard surface, his body’ s crammed into a chair , he’ s
one big spasm. He stretches, yelps with pain.
It takes him a minute to place himself. Oh yes – the tornado, the
gatehouse. All is quiet, no puf fs of wind, no howling. Is it the same
afternoon, or the night, or the next morning? There’ s light in the room,
daylight; it’ s coming in thro ugh the window over the c ounter , the
bulletproof wind ow with the int ercom, where once upon a tim e, long long
ago, you’d had to state your business. The slot for your micro-coded
documents, the twenty-four -hou r videocam, the talking smiley-faced box
that wou ld put you through the Q&A – the whole mechanism is literally
shot to hell. Grenades, possibly . There’ s a lot of fallen rubble.The scra ping co ntinues: there’ s something in the corner of the room. He
can’ t ma ke it out at first: it looks like a skull. Then he sees it’ s a  land crab, a
rounded white-y ellow shell as big as a shrunken head, with  one giant
pincer . It’ s enlar ging a hole in t he rubble. “What the shit are you doing in
here?” he asks it. “Y ou’re supposed to be outside, ruining the gardens.” He
throws the empty bourbon bottle  at it, misses; the bottle shatters. That was a
stupid th ing to do, now there’ s broken glass. The land crab whip s around to
face him , big pincer up, then backs into its half-dug hole, where it sits
watching him. It must have come in here to escape the twister , just as he
did, and now it can’ t find its way out.
He unwinds himself from the chair , looking first for snakes and rats and
any other thing he might not wish to step on. Then he drops the  candle end
and the matches into his plastic bag and walks carefully over to the
doorway leading into the front reception area. He pulls the door shut behind
him: he doesn’ t want any crab attacks from the back.
At t he outer doo rway he pauses to reconnoitre. No animals ab out, apart
from a trio of cr ows perched on the rampart. They exchange a f ew caws, of
which he is probably the subject. The sky is the pearly grey-pink of early
morning, hardly a cloud in it. The landscape has been rearranged since
yesterday: more pieces of detached metal sheeting than before, more
uprooted trees. Leaves and torn fronds litter the muddy ground.
If he  sets out now he’ll have a good chance of making it to the central
mall bef ore mid-morning. Altho ugh his stomach is growling, he’ll have to
wait till he gets  there to have breakfast. He wishes he had so me cashews
left, but  there’ s only the SoyOBoy sardines, which he’ s savin g as a last
resort.
 
 
The air is cool and fresh, the sc ent of crushed leaves luxurious after the
dank, de caying smell of the gat ehouse. He inhales with pleasure, then sets
of f in the directi on of the mall. Three blocks along he stops: se ven pigoons
have ma terialized from nowhere . They’re staring at him, ears forward. Are
they the same a s yesterday’ s? As he watches, they begin to amble in his
direction.They ha ve some thing in mind, a ll right. He turns, heads back towards the
gatehouse, quick ens his pace. They’re far enough away so he can run if he
has to. He looks over his shoulder: they’re trotting now . He speeds up,
breaks i nto a jog. Then he spo ts another group through the gateway up
ahead, eight or nine of them, coming towards him across No Man’ s Land.
They’re almost at the main gate, cutting him of f in that direction. It’ s as if
they’ve had it p lanned, betwee n the two groups; as if they’ve known for
some time that he was in the gatehouse and have been waiting for him to
come out, far enough out so they can surround him.
He reach es the gatehouse, goes through the doorway , pulls the door shut.
It doesn’ t latch. The electronic lock is nonfunctional, of course.
“Of course!” he shouts. They’ll  be able to lever it open, pry with their
trotters or snouts. They were al ways escape artists, the pigoons: if they’d
had fing ers they ’d have ruled th e world. He runs through the next doorway
into the reception area, slams the door behind him. That lock’ s kaput as
well, oh  naturally . He shoves the  desk he’ s just slept on up again st the door ,
looks out through the bulletproof window: here they come. They’ve nosed
the door open, they’re in the first room now , twenty or thirty of them, boars
and sow s but the boars foremost, crowding in, grunting eagerly , snuf fling at
his foot prints. Now one of them spots him through the window . More
grunting: now they’re all looki ng up at him. What they see is his head,
attached to what they know is a delicious meat pie just waiting t o be opened
up. The two bigg est ones, two b oars, with – yes – sharp tusks, move side by
side to the door , bumping it with  their shoulders. T eam players, t he pigoons.
There’ s a lot of muscle out there.
If they can’ t push through the do or they’ll wait him out. They’ll  take it in
relays, some grazing outside, others watching. They can keep it up forever ,
they’ll starve him out. They can smell him in there, smell his flesh.
Now he remembers to check for the land crab, but it’ s gone. It must have
backed all the way into its burrow . That’ s what he needs, a bu rrow of his
own. A burrow , a shell, some pincers.
“So,” he says out loud. “What next?”
Honey , you’r e fucked. 
 R a d i o
After an interval of blankness during which nothing at all occurs to him,
Snowman gets up out of the chair . He can’ t remember having sat down in it
but he must have done. His gu ts are cramping, he must be really scared,
though he doesn’ t feel it; he’ s qu ite calm. The door is moving in time to the
pushing and thumping from th e other side; it won’ t be long before the
pigoons break through. He takes  the flashlight out of his plastic bag, turns it
on, goes  back to the inner room where the two guys in the biosu its are lying
on t he f loor . He shines all around. There are three closed doo rs; he must
have seen them last night, but last night he wasn’ t trying to get out.
T wo of the doors don’ t move when he tries them; they must b e locked
somehow , or blocked on the other side. The third one opens easily . There,
like sudden hope, is a flight of stairs. Steep stairs. Pigoons, it oc curs to him,
have short legs and fat stomachs. The opposite of himself.
He scrambles up the stairs so fast he trips on his flowered she et. From
behind h im com es an excited g runting and squealing, and then a crash as
the desk topples over .
He e mer ges into a bright oblong space. What is it? The watch tower . Of
course. He ought to have known that. There’ s a watchtower on either side of
the main gate, a nd other towers all the way around the rampart wall. Inside
the towe rs are the searchlights, the monitor videocams, the lo udspeakers,
the controls for locking the g ates, the tear -gas nozzles, the long-range
sprayguns. Y es, here are the screens, here are the controls: find the tar get,
zero in on it, push the button. Y ou never needed to see the actua l results, the
splatter and fizzle, not in the flesh. During the period of chaos the guards
probably fired on the crowd fro m up here while they still could, and while
there was still a crowd.
None of this high-tech stuf f is working now , of course. He looks for
manually operat ed backups – it would be fine to be able to mow down the
pigoons from above – but no, there’ s nothing.
Beside the wall of dead screens  there’ s a little window: from it he has a
bird’ s-eye view of the pigoons, the group of them that’ s posted outside the
checkpoint cubi cle door . They look at ease. If they were guys , they’d behaving a  smoke  and shooting t he shit. Alert, though; on the lookout. He
pulls back: he doesn’ t want them to see him, see that he’ s up here.
Not that  they don’ t know already . They must have figured out by now
that he went up the stairs. But d o they also know they’ve got him trapped?
Because there’ s no way out of here that he can see.
He’ s in no imme diate danger – they can’ t climb the stairs or they’d have
done it by now . There’ s time to explore and regroup. Regr oup , wh at an  idea.
There’ s only one of him.
The gua rds mus t have taken cat naps up here, turn and turn about: there’ s
a couple  of standard-issue cots i n a side room. Nobody in them, no bodies.
Maybe t he guards tried to get out of RejoovenEsense, just like everyone
else. Maybe they too had hoped they could outrun contagion.
One of the beds is made, the other not. A digital voice-operated alarm
clock is still flashing beside the unmade bed. “What’ s the time? ” he asks it,
but he gets no answer . He’ll have to reprogram the thing, set it to his own
voice.
The guys were well equipped : twin entertainment centres, with the
screens, the players, the headph ones attached. Clothes hanging on hooks,
the stan dard of f-duty tropicals; a used towel on the floor , ditto a sock. A
dozen downloaded printouts o n one of the night tables. A skinny girl
wearing nothing  but high-heeled sandals and standing on her head; a blonde
dangling from a hook in the cei ling in some kind of black-leath er multiple-
fracture truss, blindfolded but w ith her mouth sagging open i n a hit-me-
again dr ool; a big woman with huge breast implants and wet red lipstick,
bending over and sticking out her pierced tongue. Same old stuf f.
The guys must have left in a hu rry . Maybe it’ s them downstairs, the ones
in the biosuits. That would make sense. Nobody seems to have come up
here tho ugh, aft er the two of them left; or if they did, there’d b een nothing
they’d wanted to take.
In one of the night-table drawers there’ s a pack of cigarettes, only a
couple g one. Sn owman taps one out – damp, but right now he’d smoke
pocket fluf f – and looks around for a way to light it. He has matches in his
garbage bag, but where is it? He  must’ve dropped it on the stairs in his rushto get up here. H e goes back to the stairwell, looks down. The re’ s the bag
all right, four stairs from the bottom. He starts cautiously downward. As
he’ s stre tching o ut his hand, so mething lunges. He jumps up o ut of reach,
watches while the pigoon slither s back down, then launches itself again. Its
eyes gleam in the half-light; he has the impression it’ s grinning.
They were waiting for him, using the garbage bag as bait. They must
have been able to tell there was something in it he’d want, that he’d come
down to  get. Cunning, so cunn ing. His legs are shaking by the time he
reaches the top level again.
Of f the nap room is a small bathroom, with a real toilet in it. Just in time:
fear has homoge nized his bowels. He takes a dump – there’ s pa per , a small
mercy , no need for leaves – and  is about to flush when he reasons that the
tank at the back must be full of water , and it’ s water he may need. He lifts
the tank top: sure enough, it’ s full, a mini-oasis. The water i s a reddish
colour but it smells okay , so he sticks his head down and drinks like a dog.
After all that adrenalin, he’ s parched.
Now he feels better . No need to panic, no need to panic ye t. In the
kitchenette he finds matches and  lights the cigarette. After a couple of drags
he feels dizzy , but still it’ s wonderful.
“If you were ninety and you h ad the chance for one last fuck but you
knew it would kill you, would you still do it?” Crake asked him once.
“Y ou bet,” said Jimmy .
“Addict,” said Crake.
 
 
Snowman finds himself humming as he goes through the kitchen
cupboards. Chocolate in squares, real chocolate. A jar of instant cof fee,
ditto cof fee whitener , ditto sugar . Shrimp paste for spreading on crackers,
ersatz but edible. Cheese food in a tube, ditto mayo. Noodle soup with
vegetables, chic ken flavour . Crackers in a plastic snap-top. A stash of
Joltbars. What a bonanza.
He b races himself, then opens the refrigerator , betting on the  fact that
these guys wouldn’ t have kept too much real food in there, so the stenchwon’ t be  too repulsive. Frozen m eat gone bad in a melted freezer unit is the
worst; h e came across quite a l ot of that in the early days of rummaging
through the pleeblands.
There’ s nothing too smelly; just a shrivelled apple, an orange covered
with grey fur . T wo bottles of beer , unopened – real beer! The  bottles are
brown, with thin retro necks.
He open s a beer , downs half o f it. W arm, but who cares? Then he sits
down at  the table and eats the shrimp paste, the crackers, the cheese food
and the mayo, finishing of f with a spoonful of cof fee powder mixed with
whitener and sugar . He saves the noodle soup and the chocolate and the
Joltbars for later .
 
 
In one of the cupboards there’ s a windup radio. He can remember when
those things started being dole d out, in case of tornadoes or floods or
anything else that might disrupt  the electronics. His parents ha d one when
they were still h is parents; he used to play with it on the sly . It h ad a handle
that turned to rechar ge the batteries, it would run for half an hour .
This one looks undamaged, so he cranks the thing up. He doesn’ t expect
to hear anything, but expectation isn’ t the same as desire.
White noise, more white noise, more white noise. He tries the AM bands,
then the FM. Nothing. Just that sound, like the sound of starlight scratching
its w ay through outer space: kkkkkkkk . Then he tries the short-wave. He
moves t he dial slowly and ca refully . Maybe there are other countries,
distant countrie s, where the people may have escaped – Ne w Zealand,
Madagascar , Patagonia – places like that.
They wouldn’ t have escaped tho ugh. Or most of them wouldn’ t. Once it
got start ed, the thing was airborne. Desire and fear were universal, between
them they’d been the gravediggers.
Kkkkk. Kkkkk. Kkkkk.
Oh, talk to me, he prays. Say something. Say anything.
 
 Suddenly there’ s an answer . It’ s a voice, a human voice. Unfortunately
it’ s speaking some language that sounds like Russian.
Snowman can’ t believe his ears . He’ s not the only one then –  someone
else has made it through, someone of his own species. Someone who knows
how to work a short-wave transmitter . And if one, then likely others. But
this one isn’ t much use to Snowman, he’ s too far away .
Dickhead! He’ s for gotten about  the CB function. That was what they’d
been told to use , in emer gencies. If there’ s anyone close by , the CB is what
they’d be doing.
He turns the dial. Receive , is what he’ll try .
Kkkkkk .
Then, faintly , a man’ s voice: “Is  anyone reading me? Anyone o ut there?
Do you read me? Over .”
Snowman fumbl es with the buttons. How to send? He’ s for gotte n. Where
is the fucker?
“I’m here! I’m here!” he shouts.
Back to Receive . Nothing.
Already he’ s having second thoughts. W as that too hasty of him? How
does he know who’ s at the othe r end? Quite possibly no one he’d care to
have lunch with. Still, he feel s buoyant, elated almost. There are more
possibilities now .
 
 R a m p a r t
Snowman’ s been  so entranced – by the excitement, the food, the voices
on the radio – that he’ s for go tten about the cut on his foot. Now it’ s
reminding him: there’ s a jabbing sensation, like a thorn. He sits down at the
kitchen table, pulls the foot up as high as he can to examine it. Looks like
there’ s a sliver of bourbon-bottle glass still in there. He picks and squeezes
and wishes he had some tweezers, or longer fingernails. Finally he gets a
grip on the tiny shard, then pulls. There’ s pain but not much blood.
Once he ’ s got the glass piece o ut he washes the cut with a lit tle of the
beer , then hobbles into the bathroom and rummages in the medicine cabinet.
Nothing of use, apart from a tube of sunblock – no good for c uts – some
out-of-date antib iotic ointment, which he smears on the wound, and the
dregs of  a bottle of shaving lot ion that smells like fake lemons. He pours
that on too, because there must be alcohol in it. Maybe he should hunt for
some drain cleaner or something , but he doesn’ t want to go too far , fry the
entire fo ot sole . He’ll just have to cross his fingers, wish for luck: an
infected foot would slow him right down. He shouldn’ t have neglected the
cut for so long, the floor downstairs must be percolating with germs.
 
 
In the evening he watches the sunset, through the narrow slit of the tower
window . How glorious it must  have been when all ten of th e videocam
screens were on and you could get the full panoramic view , turn up the
colour brightness, enhance the red tones. T oke up, sit back, drift on cloud
nine. As  it is the screens turn their blind eyes towards him, s o he has to
make do  with the real thing, just a slice of it, tangerine, then flamingo, then
watered-down blood, then strawberry ice cream, of f to the side of where the
sun must be.
In the fading pink light the pigoons waiting for him down below look like
miniature plastic figurines, bucolic replicas from a child’ s playbox. They
have the rosy tin t of innocence, as many things do at a distance . It’ s hard to
imagine that they wish him ill.
 
 Night falls. He lies down on one of the cots in the bedroom, the bed that’ s
made. Where I’m lying now , a d ead man used to sleep, he thinks. He never
saw it coming. He had no clue. Unlike Jimmy , who’d had clues , who ought
to ha ve seen but  didn’ t. If I’d killed Crake earlier , thinks Snowman, would
it have made any dif ference?
The place is too hot and stuf fy , though he’ s managed to pry the
emer gency air vents open. He ca n’ t get to sleep right away , so h e lights one
of th e candles – it’ s in a tin container with a lid, survival supp lies, you’re
supposed to be able to boil so up on those things – and smokes another
cigarette. This time it doesn’ t make him so dizzy . Every habit h e’ s ever had
is still there in his body , lying d ormant like flowers in the desert. Given the
right conditions, all his old add ictions would burst into full an d luxuriant
bloom.
He thumbs through the sex-site  printouts. The women aren’ t h is type –
too bulg y , too altered, too obvious. T oo much leer and mascara, too much
cowlike tongue. Dismay is what he feels, not lust.
Revision: dismayed lust.
“How c ould you ,” he murmurs to himself, not for the first time, as he
couples in his he ad with a rent-a-slut decked out in a red Chines e silk halter
and six-inch heels, a dragon tattooed on her bum.
Oh sweetie.
 
 
In the small ho t room he dreams; again, it’ s his mother . No, he never
dreams about his mother , only about her absence. He’ s in the kitchen.
Whuf f, goes the wind in his ear , a door closing. On a hook her dressing
gown is hanging, magenta, empty , frightening.
He wak es with his heart pound ing. He remembers now that after she’d
left he’d  put it o n, that dressing gown. It still smelled of her , of t he jasmine-
based perfume she used to wea r . He’d looked at himself in the mirror , his
boy’ s he ad with  its cool practi sed fish-eye stare topping a ne ck that led
down into that s waddling of female-coloured fabric. How much  he’d hated
her at that mom ent. He could hardly breathe, he’d been suf focating withhatred, t ears of hatred had been rolling down his cheeks. But h e’d hugged
his arms around himself all the same.
Her arms.
 
 
He’ s set  the alarm on the voice- operated digital clock for an ho ur before
dawn, guessing when that must be. “Rise and shine,” the clock says in a
seductive female voice. “Rise and shine. Rise and shine.”
“Stop,” he says, and it stops.
“Do you want music?”
“No,” h e says, because althoug h he’ s tempted to lie in bed an d interact
with the  woman  in the clock – it would be almost like a conversation – he
has to get a move on today . How long has he been away from the shore,
from the Crakers? He counts on his fingers: day one, the hike to
RejoovenEsense, the twister; da y two, trapped by the pigoons. This must be
the third day then.
Outside the window there’ s a mouse-grey light. He pisses into the kitchen
sink, spl ashes w ater onto his fa ce from the toilet tank. He shouldn’ t have
drunk th at stuf f yesterday without boiling it. He boils up a po tful now –
there’ s still gas for the propane burner – and washes his foot, a little red
around the cut but nothing to freak about, and makes himse lf a cup of
instant c of fee w ith lots of suga r and whitener . He chews up a Three-Fruit
Joltbar , savouring the familiar taste of banana oil and sweetened varnish,
and feels the ener gy sur ge.
Somewhere in all the running a round yesterday he lost his water bottle,
just as well con sidering what was in it. Bird dung, mosquito wrigglers,
nematodes. He fills up an empty beer bottle with boiled water , then snaf fles
a s tanda rd-issue micro-fibre lau ndry bag from the bedroom, into which he
packs the water , all the sugar he can find, and the half-dozen Joltbars. He
rubs on sunblock and bags the rest of the tube, and puts on a lightweight
khaki sh irt. The re’ s a pair of sunglasses too, so he discards his old single-
eyed ones. He deliberates over a pair of shorts, but they’re too big around
the waist and w ouldn’ t protect the backs of his legs, so he hangs on to hisflowered sheet, doubling it over , knotting it like a sarong. On second
thought he takes it of f and packs it into the laundry bag: it might snag on
something while  he’ s in transit, he can put it back on later . He replaces his
lost aspi rin and candles, and th rows in six small boxes of matches and a
paring knife, and his authentic-replica Red Sox baseball cap. He wouldn’ t
want to have that fall of f during the great escape.
There. Not too heavy . Now to break out.
 
 
He t ries smashing the kitchen w indow – he could lower himself down
onto the Compound rampart w ith the bedsheet he’ s torn into strips and
twisted – but n o luck: the glass is attack-proof. The narro w window
overlooking the  gateway is out of the question, as even if h e could get
through it there’d be a sheer drop into a herd of slavering pigoon s. There’ s a
small window in the bathroom, high up, but it too is on the pigoon side.
After thr ee hours of painstaking labour and with the aid of – initially – a
kitchen stepstoo l, a corkscrew , and a table knife, and – ulti mately – a
hammer and a battery-operated screwdriver he found at the back of the
utility closet, he manages to disassemble the emer gency a ir vent and
dislodge the mechanism inside it. The vent leads up like a chimney , then
there’ s a  bend to the side. He thinks he’ s skinny enough to fi t through –
semi-starvation has its advanta ges – though if he gets stuck he’ll die an
agonizing and also ludicrous death. Cooked in an air vent, very funny . He
ties one end of his improvised r ope to a leg of the kitchen table – happily
it’ s b olted to the  floor – and winds the rest around his waist. He attaches his
bag of supplies to the end of a s econd rope. Holding his breath, he squeezes
in, torques his body , wriggles. Lucky he’ s not a woman, the wide butt
would foil him. No room to spare, but now his head’ s in the outside air , then
– with a twist – his shoulders. I t’ s an eight-foot drop to the rampart. He’ll
have to go head first, hope the improvised rope will hold.
A last push, a wrench as he’ s pulled up short, and he’ s danglin g askew .
He grab s the rope, rights himself, unties the end around his w aist, lowers
himself hand over hand. Then he pulls the supply bag through. Nothing to
it.Damn an d shit. He’ s for gotten to bring the windup radio. W ell, no going
back.
The ram part is six feet wide, w ith a wall on either side. Every ten feet
there’ s a pair o f slits, not opp osite each other but staggered, meant for
observation but useful too for th e emplacement of last-ditch weaponry . The
rampart is twenty feet high, twenty-seven counting the walls. It  runs all the
way around the Compound, punctuated at intervals by a watchtower like the
one he’ s just left.
The Com pound is shaped like a n oblong, and there are five other gates.
He kno ws the plan, having studied it thoroughly during h is days at
Paradice, which  is where he’ s going now . He can see the dom e, rising up
through the trees, shining like half a moon. His plan is to get what he needs
out of there, then circle around via the rampart – or , if conditions are right,
he can cut across the Compound space on level ground – and make his way
out by a side gate.
The sun is well up. He’d better hurry , or he’ll fry . He’d like  to show
himself to the p igoons, jeer at them, but he resists this imp ulse: they’d
follow a long beside the rampart, keep him from descending. So  every time
he reaches an observation slit he crouches, holding himself below the
sightline.
 
 
At the third watchtower along he pauses. Over the top of the rampart wall
he c an s ee something white – greyish white and cloudlike – but it’ s too low
down to  be a c loud. Also it’ s the wrong shape. It’ s thin, like a wavering
pillar . It must be near the seashore, a few miles north of the Craker
encampment. At  first he thinks it’ s mist, but mist doesn’ t rise in an isolated
stem like that, it doesn’ t puf f. No question now , it’ s smoke.
The Cra kers often have a fire going, but it’ s never a lar ge one, it wouldn’ t
make sm oke like this. It could be a result of yesterday’ s storm, a lightning-
strike fire that was dampened by the rain and has begun smouldering again.
Or it might be that the Crakers have disobeyed orders and have come
looking for him, and have built a signal fire to guide him home. That’ s
unlikely – it isn’ t how they think – but if so, they’re way of f course.He eats half a Joltbar , downs s ome water , continues along the rampart.
He’ s limping a little now , conscious of his foot, but he can’ t stop and tend to
it, he has to go as fast as he can. He needs that spraygun, and not just
because of the w olvogs and the pigoons. From time to time he looks over
his shou lder . Th e smoke is still there, just the one column of it. It hasn’ t
spread. It keeps on rising.
 
 P l e e b c r a w l
Snowman limps  along the rampart, towards the glassy white swell of the
bubble-dome, which is receding from him like a mirage. Because of his foot
he’ s making poor time, and around eleven o’clock the concrete gets too hot
for him to walk  on. He’ s got the sheet over his head, draped  himself as
much as possible, over his baseball cap and over the tropical shirt, but he
could still burn, despite the sunblock and the two layers of cloth. He’ s
grateful for his new two-eyed sunglasses.
He hunc hes down in the shade  of the next watchtower to wait out the
noon, su cks wa ter from a bottle. After the worst of the glare and heat is
past, aft er the daily thunderstorm has come and gone, he’ll have maybe
three hours to go. All things being equal, he can get there before nightfall.
Heat pours down, bounces up of f the concrete. He relaxe s into it,
breathes it in, feels the sweat trickling down, like millipedes walking on
him. His  eyes waver shut, the o ld films whir and crackle through his head.
“What the fuck did he need me for?” he says. “Why didn’ t h e leave me
alone?”
No poin t thinking about it, no t in this heat, with his brain t urning to
melted cheese. Not melted cheese: better to avoid food images. T o putty , to
glue, to hair pro duct, in creme form, in a tube. He once used that. He can
picture its exact position on the shelf, lined up next to his razor : he’d liked
neatness, in a shelf. He has a sudden clear image of himself, freshly
showered, running the creme hair product through his damp hair with his
hands. In Paradice, waiting for Oryx.
He’d me ant well, or at least he hadn’ t meant ill. He’d never wanted to
hurt anyone, not seriously , not in real space-time. Fantasies didn’ t count.
 
 
It w as a Saturday . Jimmy was lying in bed. He was finding it h ard to get
up t hese days; h e’d been late for work a couple of times in the past week,
and added to the  times before th at and the times before that, it was going to
be troub le for him soon. Not tha t he’d been out carousing: the reverse. He’d
been avoiding human contact. The AnooY oo higher -ups hadn’ t chewed himout y et; probably they knew about his mother and her traitor ’ s death. W ell,
of course they d id, though it wa s the kind of deep dark open secret that was
never m entioned in the Compounds – bad luck, evil eye, might be catching,
best to act dumb and so forth. Probably they were cutting him some slack.
There was one good thing an yway: maybe now that they’d finally
scratched his mother of f their list, the Corpsmen would leave him alone.
“Get it up, get it up, get it up,” said his voice clock. It was pink, phallus-
shaped: a Cock Clock, given to  him as a joke by one of his l overs. He’d
thought it was funny at the tim e, but this morning he found it insulting.
That’ s a ll he was to her , to all o f them: a mechanical joke. Nob ody wanted
to be  sex less, but nobody wanted  to be nothing but sex, Crake sa id once. Oh
yes siree, thought Jimmy . Another human conundrum.
“What’ s the time?” he said to the clock. It dipped its head, sproinged
upright again.
“It’ s noon. It’ s noon, it’ s noon, it’ s . . .”
“Shut up ,” said Jimmy . The clock wilted. It was programmed to respond
to harsh tones.
Jimmy considered getting out of bed, going to the kitchenette, opening a
beer . That was q uite a good ide a. He’d had a late night. One of his lovers,
the woman who’d given him th e clock in fact, had made her w ay through
his wall of sile nce. She’d turned up around ten with some takeout –
Nubbins and fries, she knew what he liked – and a bottle of Scotch.
“I’ve been concerned about you,” she’d said. What she’d really wanted
was a quick furtive jab, so he’d done his best and she’d had a fine time, but
his hear t wasn’ t  in it and that must have been obvious. Then they’d had to
go through What’ s the matter , Ar e you bor ed with me , I r eally car e about
you , and so forth and blah blah.
“Leave your husband,” Jimmy had said, to cut her short. “Let’ s run away
to the pleeblands and live in a trailer park.”
“Oh, I don’ t think . . . Y ou don’ t mean that.”
“What if I did?
“Y ou know I care about you. But I care about him too, and . . .”“From the waist down.”
“Pardon?” She was a genteel woman, she said Par don?  instead of What ?
“I said, from the waist down. That’ s how you really care about me. W ant
me to spell it out for you?”
“I don’ t know what’ s got into you, you’ve been so mean lately .”
“No fun at all.”
“W ell, actually , no.”
“Then piss of f.”
After that they’d had a fight, and she’d cried, which strangely enough
had made Jimmy feel better . After that they’d finished the Scotch. After that
they’d h ad more  sex, and this time Jimmy had enjoyed himself but his lover
hadn’ t, because he’d been too rough and fast and had not said anything
flattering to her the way he usually did. Gr eat ass , and so on and so forth.
He shou ldn’ t have been so crab by . She was a fine woman with real tits
and prob lems o f her own. He wondered whether he’d ever se e her again.
Most likely he would, because she’d had that I c an cur e you  lo ok in her
eyes when she’d left.
 
 
After Jimmy had taken a leak and was getting the beer out of the fridge,
his i ntercom buzzed. There she was, right on cue. Immediately he felt surly
again. He went over to the speakerphone. “Go away ,” he said.
“It’ s Crake. I’m downstairs.”
“I d on’ t believe it,” said Jimmy . He punched in the numbers for the
videocam in the lobby: it was Crake, all right, giving him the fin ger and the
grin.
“Let me  in,” said Crake, and Ji mmy did, because right then C rake was
about the only person he wanted to see.
 
 Crake was much the same. He had the same dark clothing. He wasn’ t
even balder .
“What t he fuck are you doing h ere?” said Jimmy . After the ini tial sur ge
of pleasure he felt embarrassed that he wasn’ t dressed yet, and that his
apartment was knee-deep in dust bunnies and cigarette butts and dirty
glassware and empty Nubbins containers, but Crake didn’ t seem to notice.
“Nice to feel I’m welcome,” said Crake.
“Sorry . Things haven’ t been too good lately ,” said Jimmy .
“Y eah. I saw that. Y our mother . I e-mailed, but you didn’ t answer .”
“I haven’ t been picking up my e-mails,” said Jimmy .
“Understandable. It was on brainfrizz: inciting to violence, membership
in a banned or ganization, hampering the dissemination of commercial
products, treason able crimes against society . I guess that last was the demos
she was in. Throwing bricks or something. T oo bad, she was a nice lady .”
Neither nice  nor lady  was  app licable in Jimmy’ s view , but he wasn’ t up
to debating this, not so early in the day . “W ant a beer?” he said.
“No thanks,” said Crake. “I jus t came to see you. See if you  were all
right.”
“I’m all right,” said Jimmy .
Crake lo oked at him. “Let’ s go to the pleeblands,” he said. “T r oll a few
bars.”
“This is a joke, right?” said Jimmy .
“No, really . I’ve got the passes. My regular one, and one for you.”
By which Jimmy knew that Crake really must be somebody . He was
impressed. But much more than that, he was touched that Crake would
experience conc ern for him, wou ld come all this way to seek him out. Even
though t hey hadn’ t been in close touch lately – Jimmy’ s fault –  Crake was
still his friend.
 
 Five hours later they were strolling through the pleeblands north of New
New Y ork. It had taken only a couple of hours to get there – bullet train to
the nearest Compound, then an of ficial Corps car with an armed driver , laid
on by whoever was doing Crake ’ s bidding. The car had taken them into the
heart of what Crake called the action, and dropped them of f there. They’d
be shado wed though, said Crake. They’d be protected. So no harm would
come to them.
Before setting out, Crake had s tuck a needle in Jimmy’ s arm – an all-
purpose, short-term vaccine he’d cooked himself. The pleeblan ds, he said,
were a giant Pe tri dish: a lot of guck and contagious plasm got spread
around there. If you grew up surrounded by it you were more or less
immune, unless a new bioform came raging through; but if you were from
the Com pounds and you set foot in the pleebs, you were a feast. It was like
having a big sign on your forehead that said, Eat Me.
Crake h ad nose  cones for them too, the latest model, not just to filter
microbes but also to skim out particulate. The air was worse in the
pleeblands, he said. More jun k blowing in the wind, fewe r whirlpool
purifying towers dotted around.
Jimmy had never been to the pleeblands before, he’d only loo ked over
the wall. He was excited to finally be there, though he wasn’ t p repared for
so man y people so close to one another , walking, talkin g, hurrying
somewhere. Spitting on the sidewalk was a feature he personally could skip.
Rich pl eeblanders in luxury cars, poor ones on solarbikes, hookers in
fluorescent Spandex, or in short shorts, or – more athletically , showing of f
their firm thighs – on scooters, weaving in and out of traf fic. All skin
colours, all sizes. Not all prices  though, said Crake: this was the low end.
So Jimm y could window-shop, but he shouldn’ t purchase. He should save
that for later .
The ple ebland inhabitants didn’ t look like the mental deficients the
Compounders were fond of depicting, or most of them didn’ t. After a while
Jimmy b egan to relax, enjoy the  experience. There was so much  to see – so
much being hawked, so much being of fered. Neon slogans, billboards, ads
everywhere. An d there were rea l tramps, real beggar women, ju st as in old
DVD musicals:  Jimmy kept expecting them to kick up th eir batteredbootsoles, break into song. Real musicians on the street corners, real bands
of st reet urchins. Asymmetries,  deformities: the faces here we re a far cry
from the  regular ity of the Comp ounds. There were even bad te eth. He was
gawking.
“W atch your wallet,” said Crake. “Not that you’ll need cash.”
“Why not?”
“My treat,” said Crake.
“I can’ t let you do that.”
“Y our turn next time.”
“Fair enough,” said Jimmy .
“Here we are – this is what they call the Street of Dreams.”
The shops here were mid-to-high end, the displays elaborate. Blue Genes
Day? Jim my read. T ry SnipNFix! Herediseases Removed. Why  Be Short?
Go Goliath! Dreamkidlets. Heal Y our Helix. Cribfillers Ltd. W eenie
W eenie? Longfellow’ s the Fellow!
“So this is where our stuf f turns to gold,” said Crake.
“Our stuf f?”
“What we’re turning out at R ejoov . Us, and the other body -oriented
Compounds.”
“Does all of it  work?” Jimmy was impressed, not so much by the
promises as by the slogans: mi nds like his had passed this way . His dank
mood of that morning had vani shed, he was feeling quite che erful. There
was so much coming at him, s o much information; it took u p all of his
headroom.
“Quite a lot of it,” said Crake. “Of course, nothing’ s perfect. But the
competition’ s fe rocious, especially what the Russians are doing, and the
Japanese, and the Germans, of course. And the Swedes. W e’re holding our
own though, we have a reputa tion for dependable product. People come
here from  all over the world – they shop around. Gender , sexual orientation,
height, colour of skin and eyes – it’ s all on order , it can all be done orredone. Y ou have no idea how much money changes hands on this one
street alone.”
“Let’ s get a drin k,” said Jimmy . He was thinking about his hyp othetical
brother , the one that wasn’ t born  yet. W as this where his father and Ramona
had gone shopping?
They had a drink, then something to eat – real oysters, said Crake, real
Japanese beef, rare as diamond s. It must have cost a fortune. Then they
went to a couple of other places and ended up in a bar featuring oral sex on
trapezes, and Jimmy drank som ething orange that glowed in the dark, and
then a couple more of the same. Then he was telling Crake the  story of his
life – no, the story of his mother ’ s life – in one long garbled sentence, like a
string of  chewin g gum that just kept coming out of his mouth. Then they
were som ewhere else, on an end less green satin bed, being wor ked over by
two girls covered from head to toe in sequins that were glued onto their skin
and shim mered like the scales of a virtual fish. Jimmy had nev er known a
girl who could twist and twine to such advantage.
W as it there, or at one of the bars, earlier , that the subject of the job had
come up ? The next morning he couldn’ t remember . Crake ha d said, Job,
Y ou , Rejoov , a nd Jimmy ha d said, Doing what, cleaning the toilets , and
Crake h ad laughed and said, Better than that . J immy  couldn ’ t remember
saying y es, but he must have. He would have taken any job, no matter what
it w as. He wanted to move, move on. He was ready for a whole new
chapter .
 
 B l y s s P l u s s
On the Monday morning after his weekend with Crake, Jimmy turned up
at A nooY oo for another day of word-mongering. He felt pretty wasted, but
hoped it didn’ t show . Thoug h it encouraged all kinds o f chemical
experiments by its paying clientele, AnooY oo frowned upon anything
similar amongst the hired help. It figured, Jimmy thought: in the olden days,
bootleggers had seldom been drunks. Or so he’d read.
Before g oing to  his desk he visited the Men’ s, checked hims elf in the
mirror: he looked like a regur g itated pizza. Plus he was late, but for once
nobody noticed . All of a sudden there was his boss, and some other
functionaries so  elevated that Jimmy had never seen them befo re. Jimmy’ s
hand was being shaken, his ba ck gently slapped, a glass of champagne
look-alike pressed into his hand. Oh g ood! Hair o f the dog! Glug -glug-glug ,
went Jimmy’ s voice balloon, but he took care to merely sip.
Then he was being told what a pleasure it had been to have him with
AnooY oo, and what an asset he’d proved to be, and how many warm wishes
would a ccompany him where he was going, and by the way , m any , many
congratulations! His severance package would be deposited immediately to
his Corpsbank account. It would be a generous one, more generous than his
length of service warranted, bec ause, let’ s be frank, his friends at AnooY oo
wanted Jimmy to remember the m in a positive manner , in his terrific new
position.
Whatever that may be, thought Jimmy , as he sat in the sealed bullet train.
The trai n had been arranged for him, and so had the move – a team would
arrive, t hey’d pack up everything, they were professionals, never fear . He
barely had time to contact his various lovers, and when he did he
discovered that each one of the m had already been discreetly informed by
Crake personall y , who – it appeared – had long tentacles. How had he
known a bout them? Maybe he’d been hacking into Jimmy’ s e-m ail, easy for
him. But why bother?
I’ll miss you Jimmy , said an e-message from one.
Oh Jimmy , you wer e so funny , said another .
W er e  was a creep-out. It wasn’ t as if he’d died or anything. 
 
Jimmy s pent his  first night in RejoovenEsense at the VIP guest hotel. He
poured h imself a drink from the mini-bar , straight Scotch, as rea l as it came,
then spe nt a while looking out the picture window at the view , not that he
could m ake out very much except lights. He could see the Para dice dome,
an immense half-circle in the distance, floodlit from below , but he didn’ t yet
know what it was. He thought it was a skating rink.
Next morning Crake took him for a preliminary tour of the
RejoovenEsense Compound in his souped-up electric golf cart. It was,
Jimmy had to admit, spectacular in all ways. Everything was sparkling
clean, landscape d, ecologically pristine, and very expensive. The air was
particulate-free, due to the many solar whirlpool purifying towers,
discreetly placed and disguised as modern art. Rockulators took care of the
microclimate, bu tterflies as big as plates drifted among the vivid ly coloured
shrubs. I t made all the other Co mpounds Jimmy had ever been in, W atson-
Crick included, look shabby and retro.
“What p ays for all this?” he ask ed Crake, as they passed the state-of-the-
art Luxuries Mall – marble everywhere, colonnades, cafés, ferns, takeout
booths, roller -skating path, juice bars, a self-ener gizing gym where running
on t he treadmill kept the light  bulbs going, Roman-look fountains with
nymphs and sea-gods.
“Grief in the face of inevitable death,” said Crake. “The wish to stop
time. The human condition.”
Which was not very informative, said Jimmy .
“Y ou’ll see,” said Crake.
 
 
They had lunch at one of the five-star Rejoov restaurants, o n an air -
conditioned pse udobalcony ov erlooking the main Compoun d or ganic-
botanics greenh ouse. Crake had the kanga-lamb, a new Austr alian splice
that com bined the placid character and high-protein yield of the  sheep with
the kangaroo’ s resistance to disease and absence of methane-producing,ozone-destroying flatulence. Jimmy ordered the raisin-stuf fed capon – real
free-range capon, real sun-dried raisins, Crake assured him. Jimmy was so
used to Chickie Nobs by now , to their bland tofulike consistenc y and their
inof fensive flavour , that the capon tasted quite wild.
“My un it’ s called Paradice,” said Crake, over the soy-banana flambé.
“What we’re working on is immortality .”
“So is everyone else,” said Jimmy . “They’ve kind of done it in rats.”
“ Kind of  is crucial,” said Crake.
“What about the cryogenics gu ys?” said Jimmy . “Freeze your head, get
your bo dy reconstituted once they’ve figured out how? They’re doing a
brisk business, their stock’ s high.”
“Sure, a nd a couple of years late r they toss you out the back doo r and tell
your relatives there was a power failure. Anyway , we’re cutt ing out the
deep-freeze.”
“How do you mean?”
“W ith us,” said Crake, “you wouldn’ t have to die first.”
“Y ou’ve really done it?”
“Not yet,” said Crake. “But think of the R&D budget.”
“Millions?”
“Mega-millions,” said Crake.
“Can I have another drink?” said Jimmy . This was a lot to take in.
“No. I need you to listen.”
“I can listen and drink too.”
“Not very well.”
“T ry me,” said Jimmy .
 
 
W ithin P aradice, said Crake – a nd they’d visit the facility afte r lunch –
there we re two major initiatives going forward. The first – the BlyssPlussPill – was prop hylactic in nature, and the logic behind it w as simple:
eliminate the external causes of death and you were halfway there.
“External causes?” said Jimmy .
“W ar , which is t o say misplaced sexual ener gy , which we consid er to be a
lar ger factor than the economic, racial, and religious causes often cited.
Contagious dise ases, especially sexually transmitted ones. Ove rpopulation,
leading – as we’ ve seen in spad es – to environmental degradation and poor
nutrition.”
Jimmy said it sounded like a tall order: so much had been tried  in those
areas, so  much had failed. Crake smiled. “If at first you don’ t succeed, read
the instructions,” he said.
“Meaning?”
“The proper study of Mankind is Man.”
“Meaning?”
“Y ou’ve got to work with what’ s on the table.”
The BlyssPluss Pill was designed to take a set of givens, namely the
nature of human nature, and steer these givens in a more  beneficial
direction than the ones hitherto  taken. It was based on studies of the now
unfortunately extinct pygmy or bonobo chimpanzee, a close  relative of
Homo sapiens sapiens . Unlike the latter species, the bonobo had not been
partially monog amous with polygamous and polyandrous tendencies.
Instead i t had been indiscriminately promiscuous, had not pair -bonded, and
had spent most of its waking life, when it wasn’ t eating, engaged in
copulation. Its intraspecific aggression factor had been very low .
Which h ad led to the concept of BlyssPluss. The aim was to p roduce a
single pill, that, at one and the same time:
 
 
a) would  protect the user agains t all known sexually transmitted diseases,
fatal, inconvenient, or merely unsightly;
b) would provide an unlimited supply of libido and sexual prowess,
coupled with a generalized sen se of ener gy and well-being, th us reducingthe frustration and blocked test osterone that led to jealousy an d violence,
and eliminating feelings of low self-worth;
c) would prolong youth.
 
 
These three capabilities would be the selling points, said Crake;  but there
would be a fou rth, which would not be advertised. The Bly ssPluss Pill
would a lso act as a sure-fire one-time-does-it-all birth-control p ill, for male
and fem ale alike, thus automatically lowering the population  level. This
ef fect c ould be made reversible, though not in individual subjects, by
altering the components of the p ill as needed, i.e., if the populations of any
one area got too low .
“So bas ically you’re going to s terilize people without them knowing it
under the guise of giving them the ultra in or gies?”
“That’ s a crude way of putting it,” said Crake.
Such a pill, he said, would c onfer lar ge-scale benefits, not only on
individual users – although it had to appeal to these or it would be a failure
in th e marketplace – but on soci ety as a whole; and not only on  society , but
on the planet. Th e investors were very keen on it, it was going to be global.
It was all upside. There was no downside at all. He, Crake, was very excited
about it.
“I d idn’ t know you were so altruistic,” said Jimmy . Since w hen had
Crake been a cheerleader for the human race?
“It’ s not  altruism  exactly ,” said C rake. “More like sink or swim.  I’ve seen
the latest confidential Corps demographic reports. As a species we’re in
deep tro uble, wo rse than anyone’ s saying. They’re afraid to release the stats
because people might just give up, but take it from me, we’re running out of
space-time. Demand for resou rces has exceeded supply for decades in
mar ginal geopol itical areas, hence the famines and droughts; but very soon,
demand is going to exceed supply for everyone . W ith the Blyss Pluss Pill the
human race will have a better chance of swimming.”
“How do you fig ure?” Maybe Jimmy shouldn’ t have had that extra drink.
He was getting a bit confused.“Fewer people, therefore more to go around.”
“What if the fewer people are very greedy and wasteful?” sai d Jimmy .
“That’ s not out of the question.”
“They won’ t be,” said Crake.
“Y ou’ve got this thing now?” said Jimmy . He was beginning to see the
possibilities. Endless high-grade sex, no consequences. Come to  think of it,
his own  libido could use a little  toning up. “Does it make your hair grow
back?” He almost said Wher e can I get some , but stopped himself in time.
It w as an eleg ant concept, said Crake, though it still need ed some
tweaking. They hadn’ t got it to work seamlessly yet, not on all f ronts; it was
still at the clinical trial stage. A couple of the test subjects had literally
fucked themselv es to death, several had assaulted old ladies and  household
pets, and there h ad been a few unfortunate cases of priapism and split dicks.
Also, at first, the sexually tran smitted disease protection mechanism had
failed in a specta cular manner . One subject had grown a big genital wart all
over her  epiderm is, distressing to observe, but they’d taken care  of that with
lasers an d exfoliation, at least temporarily . In short, there had been errors,
false directions taken, but they were getting very close to a solution.
Needless to say , Crake continued, the thing would become a huge
money-spinner . It would be the must-have pill, in every country , in every
society i n the world. Of course the crank religions wouldn’ t lik e it, in view
of the fact that their raison d’être was based on misery , indefinitely deferred
gratification, and sexual frustration, but they wouldn’ t be able to hold out
long. The tide of human desire, the desire for more and better , would
overwhelm them . It would take control and drive events, as it h ad in every
lar ge change throughout history .
Jimmy said the t hing sounded very interesting. Provided its shor tcomings
could be remedied, that is. Good name, too – BlyssPluss. A whispering,
seductive sound. He liked it. H e had no further wish to try it out himself,
however: he had enough problems without his penis bursting.
“Where do you get the subjects?” he said. “For the clinical trials?”
Crake grinned. “From the poorer countries. Pay them a few dollars, they
don’ t ev en know  what they’re ta king. Sex clinics, of course – they’re happyto help. Whoreh ouses. Prisons. And from the ranks of the desperate, as
usual.”
“Where do I fit in?”
“Y ou’ll do the ad campaign,” said Crake.
 
 M a d d A d d a m
After lunch they went to Paradice.
The dom e complex was at the far right side of the Rejoov Com pound. It
had its own park around it, a dense climate-controlling plantation of mixed
tropical splices above which i t rose like a blind eyeball. There was a
security installation around th e park, very tight, said Crake; even the
Corpsmen were not allowed insi de. Paradice had been his concept, and he’d
made th at a condition when he’d  agreed to actualize it: he didn’ t want a lot
of heavy-handed ignoramuses poking into things they couldn’ t understand.
Crake’ s pass was good for both of them, of course. They rolled in
through the first gate and along the roadway through the trees. Then there
was ano ther che ckpoint, with guards – Paradice uniforms, Crake explained,
not Corp s – that seemed to mat erialize from the bushes. Then more trees.
Then the  curved  wall of the bubble-dome itself. It might look delicate, said
Crake, but it was made of a new mussel-adhesive/silicon/dendrite-formation
alloy , ultra-resis tant. Y ou’d have to have some very advanced tools to cut
through it, as it would reconform itself after pressure and automatically
repair an y gashe s. Moreover , it had the capacity to both filter a nd breathe,
like an eggshell, though it required a solar -generated current to do so.
They turned the golf cart over to one of the guards and were coded
through the outer door , which closed with a whuf f behind them.
“Why did it make that sound?” said Jimmy nervously .
“It’ s an airlock,” said Crake. “As in spaceships.”
“What for?”
“In case this p lace ever has t o be sealed of f,” said Crake.  “Hostile
bioforms, toxin attacks, fanatics. The usual.”
By this time Jimmy was feeling a little strange. Crake hadn’ t really told
him what went on in here, not in specific detail. “W ait and se e,” was all
he’d said.
Once th ey were through the inn er door they were in a familiar -enough
complex. Halls, doors, staf f with digital clipboards, others hunched in front
of screens; it was like Or ganInc  Farms, it was like HelthW yzer , it was likeW atson-Crick, o nly newer . But p hysical plants were just a shell,  said Crake:
what really counted in a research facility was the quality of the brains.
“These are top-of-the-line,” he  said, nodding left and right. In return
there was a lot of deferential smiling, and – this wasn’ t faked – a lot of awe.
Jimmy h ad never been clear about Crake’ s exact position, but whatever his
nominal title – he’d been vague  about that – he was obviously the biggest
ant in the anthill.
Each of the staf f  had a name tag with block lettering – one or tw o words
only . BLACK  RHINO. WHITE SEDGE. IVOR Y -BILLED
WOODPECKER. POLAR BEAR. INDIAN TIGER. LOTIS BLUE.
SWIFT FOX.
“The names,” he said to Crake. “Y ou raided Extinctathon!”
“It’ s more than the names,” said  Crake. “These people ar e  Extinctathon.
They’re all Grandmasters. What you’re looking at is MaddAddam, the
cream of the crop.”
“Y ou’re joking! How come they’re here?” said Jimmy .
“They’re the splice geniuses,” said Crake. “The ones that were pulling
those capers, the asphalt-eating microbes, the outbreak of neon-coloured
herpes simplex on the west coast, the ChickieNob wasps and so on.”
“Neon herpes? I didn’ t hear abo ut that,” said Jimmy . Pretty funny . “How
did you track them down?”
“I wasn’ t the only person after t hem. They were making themselves very
unpopular in some quarters. I ju st got to them ahead of the Corp s, that’ s all.
Or I got to most of them, anyway .”
Jimmy was going to ask What happened to the others , but he thought
better of it.
“So you kidnapped them, or wha t?” That wouldn’ t have surprised Jimmy ,
brain-snatching being a customary practice; though usually the brains were
snatched between countries, not within them.
“I m erely persuaded them they’d be a lot happier and safer in here than
out there.”
“Safer? In Corps territory?”“I go t th em secu re papers. Most of them agreed with me, especi ally when
I of fered to destroy their so-called real identities and all records of their
previous existences.”
“I thoug ht those guys were anti-Compound,” said Jimmy . “The stuf f
MaddAddam was doing was pretty hostile, from what you showed me.”
“They were anti-Compound. Still are, probably . But after th e Second
W orld W ar in the twentieth century , the Allies invited a lot of German
rocket s cientists to come and w ork with them, and I can’ t recall anyone
saying no. When your main game’ s over , you can always move your
chessboard elsewhere.”
“What if they try sabotage, or . . .”
“Escape? Y eah,” said Crake. “A couple were like that at the beginning.
Not team  players. Thought they’d take what they’d done here, cart it
of fshore. Go under ground, or set up elsewhere.”
“What did you do?”
“They fell of f pleebland overpasses,” said Crake.
“Is that a joke?”
“In a manner of speaking. Y ou’ll need another name,” Crake said, “a
MaddAddam name, so you’ll fit in. I thought, since I’m Crake here, you
could go back to being Thickne y , the way you were when we were – how
old?”
“Fourteen.”
“Those were definitive times,” said Crake.
Jimmy w anted t o linger , but Cra ke was already hurrying him along. He’d
have lik ed to talk with some of these people, hear their stories –  had any of
them kn own his mother , for ins tance? – but maybe he could do that later .
On t he other ha nd, maybe not: he’d been seen with Crake, the alpha wolf,
the silve rback g orilla, the head lion. Nobody would want to get too cozy
with him. They’d see his as the jackal position.
 
 P a r a d i c e
They dropped in at Crake’ s of fice, so Jimmy could get a little oriented,
said Crake. It was a lar ge space with many gizmos in it, as Jimmy would
have exp ected. There was a pain ting on the wall: an eggplant on an orange
plate. It was the first picture Jim my ever remembered seeing in a place of
Crake’ s. He thought of asking if that was Crake’ s girlfriend, but thought
better of it.
He zeroed in on the mini-bar . “Anything in that?”
“Later ,” said Crake.
Crake st ill had a collection of fridge magnets, but they were  dif ferent
ones. No more science quips.
 
 
Where God is, Man is not.
There are two moons, the one you can see and the one you can’ t.
Du musz dein Leben andern.
W e understand more than we know .
I think, therefore.
T o stay human is to break a limitation.
Dream steals from its lair towards its prey .
 
 
“What are you really up to here?” said Jimmy .
Crake grinned. “What is r eally ?”
“Bogus,” said Jimmy . But he was thrown of f balance.
 
 
Now , sa id Crake, it was time to get serious. He was going to show Jimmy
the o ther thing they were doing – the main thing, here at Paradice. WhatJimmy was about to see was . . . well, it couldn’ t be described. It was, quite
simply , Crake’ s life’ s work.
Jimmy put on a  suitably solemn face. What next? Some grues ome new
food sub stance, no doubt. A liver tree, a sausage vine. Or some sort of
zucchini that grew wool. He braced himself.
Crake led Jimmy along and arou nd; then they were standing in front of a
lar ge pic ture win dow . No: a one -way mirror . Jimmy looked in. There was a
lar ge cen tral spa ce filled with trees and plants, above them a blue sky . (Not
really a blue sky , only the curved ceiling of the bubble-dome, with a clever
projection device that simulated dawn, sunlight, evening, night. There was a
fake mo on that went through its phases, he discovered later . There was fake
rain.)
That was his firs t view of the Crakers. They were naked, but no t like the
Noodie News: there was no s elf-consciousness, none at all. At first he
couldn’ t believe  them, they were so beautiful. Black, yellow , w hite, brown,
all avail able skin colours. Each individual was exquisite. “Are they robots,
or what?” he said.
“Y ou know how they’ve got floor models, in furniture stores?” said
Crake.
“Y eah?”
“These are the floor models.”
 
 
It w as the resu lt of a logical  chain of progression, said C rake that
evening, over drinks in the P aradice Lounge (fake palm trees, canned
music, real Campari, real sod a). Once the proteonome had been fully
analyzed and interspecies gene and part-gene splicing were thoroughly
underway , the Paradice Project or something like it had been on ly a matter
of time. What Jimmy had seen was the next-to-end result of seven years of
intensive trial-and-error research.
“At first ,” said Crake, “we had to alter ordinary human embryos, which
we g ot from – never mind where we got them. But these peo ple are sui
generis . They’re reproducing themselves, now .”“They look more than seven years old,” said Jimmy .
Crake explained about the rapid-growth factors he’d inco rporated.
“Also,” he said, “they’re program med to drop dead at age thirty – suddenly ,
without getting sick. No old age, none of those anxieties. They’ll just keel
over . Not that they know it; none of them has died yet.”
“I thought you were working on immortality .”
“Immortality ,” said Crake, “is a concept. If you take ‘mortality’  as being,
not deat h, but the foreknowledge of it and the fear of it, then ‘i mmortality’
is the absence of such fear . B abies are immortal. Edit out th e fear , and
you’ll be . . .”
“Sounds like Applied Rhetoric 101,” said Jimmy .
“What?”
“Never mind. Martha Graham stuf f.”
“Oh. Right.”
Other C ompounds in other countries were following similar  lines of
reasoning, said Crake, they were developing their own prototypes, so the
population in the bubble-dome was ultra-secret. V ow of silence, closed-
circuit i nternal e-mailing only unless you had special permission, living
quarters inside the security zone but outside the airlock. This would reduce
the chances of infection in case any of the staf f got sick; the Paradice
models had enhanced immune-system functions, so the probability of
contagious diseases spreading among them was low .
Nobody was allowed out of the complex. Or almost nobody . Cr ake could
go out, of course. He was the li aison between Paradice and the Rejoov top
brass, th ough he hadn’ t let them  in yet, he was making them wait. They
were a greedy bunch, nervous about their investment; they’d want to jump
the gun,  start marketing too so on. Also they’d talk too much , tip of f the
competition. They were all boasters, those guys.
“So, now  that I’m in here I can never get out?” said Jimmy . “Y ou didn’ t
tell me that.”
“Y ou’ll be an exception,” said C rake. “Nobody’ s going to kidnap you for
what’ s inside your skull. Y ou’re just doing the ads, remember?” But the restof the team, he s aid – the MaddAddamite contingent – was conf ined to base
for the duration.
“The duration?”
“Until we go pu blic,” said Crake. V ery soon, RejoovenEsense hoped to
hit the market w ith the various blends on of fer . They’d be able to create
totally chosen babies that would  incorporate any feature, physical or mental
or spiritual, that the buyer might wish to select. The present methods on
of fer were very hit-or -miss, said Crake: certain hereditary diseases could be
screened out, true, but apart from that there was a lot of spoilage, a lot of
waste. T he customers never knew whether they’d get exactly what they’d
paid for; in a ddition to which, there were too many unintended
consequences.
But with the P aradice method, there would be ninety-nine per cent
accuracy . Whole populations could be created that would have pre-selected
characteristics. Beauty , of cou rse; that would be in high demand. And
docility: several  world leaders had expressed interest in that. P aradice had
already developed a UV -resis tant skin, a built-in insect repellant, an
unprecedented a bility to digest unrefined plant material. As fo r immunity
from mi crobes, what had until now been done with drugs would soon be
innate.
Compared to the Paradice Proje ct, even the BlyssPluss Pill was a crude
tool, although it would be a lu crative interim solution. In the long run,
however , the benefits for the future human race of the two in combination
would be stupendous. They were inextricably linked – the P ill and the
Project. The Pill would put a s top to haphazard reproduction, the Project
would replace it with a superior method. They were two stages of a single
plan, you might say .
It w as amazing – said Crake – what once-unimaginable things had been
accomplished b y the team here . What had been altered was nothing less
than the ancient primate brain. Gone were its destructive features, the
features responsible for the world’ s current illnesses. For instance, racism –
or , as they referred to it in Paradice, pseudospeciation – had been eliminated
in th e model g roup, merely by switching the bonding mechanism: the
Paradice people  simply did not register skin colour . Hierarchy could notexist am ong them, because they lacked the neural complexes that would
have created it. Since they were  neither hunters nor agriculturalists hungry
for land, there was no territoriality: the king-of-the-castle hard-wiring that
had plag ued humanity had, in them, been unwired. They ate nothing but
leaves and grass and roots and a berry or two; thus their foods were
plentiful and always available. Their sexuality was not a constant torment to
them, no t a cloud of turbulent hormones: they came into heat at regular
intervals, as did most mammals other than man.
In fact, as there would never be anything for these people to inh erit, there
would be no family trees, no marriages, and no divorces. They were
perfectly adjust ed to their habitat, so they would never hav e to create
houses o r tools or weapons, or , for that matter , clothing. They would have
no need to inven t any harmful symbolisms, such as kingdoms, icons, gods,
or m oney . Best of all, they recy cled their own excrement. By means of a
brilliant splice, incorporating genetic material from . . .
“Excuse me,” said Jimmy . “But  a lot of this stuf f isn’ t what the average
parent is looking for in a baby . Didn’ t you get a bit carried away?”
“I told you,” sa id Crake patiently . “These are the floor models. They
represent the art of the possible. W e can list the individual features for
prospective buy ers, then we can  customize. Not everyone will want all the
bells and whistles, we know th at. Though you’d be surprised how many
people w ould lik e a very beauti ful, smart baby that eats nothin g but grass.
The vegans are highly interested in that little item. W e’ve done our market
research.”
Oh good, thought Jimmy . Y our baby can double as a lawn mower .
“Can they speak?” he asked.
“Of course they can speak,” said Crake. “When they have something they
want to say .”
“Do they make jokes?”
“Not as such,” said Crake. “Fo r jokes you need a certain edge, a little
malice. It took a lot of trial an d error and we’re still testing,  but I think
we’ve managed to do away with jokes.” He raised his glass, grinned atJimmy . “Glad you’re here, cork -nut,” he said. “I needed someb ody I could
talk to.”
 
 
Jimmy w as give n his own suite inside the Paradice dome. His b elongings
were there before him, each one tidied away just where it ought to be –
underwear in the underwear drawer , shirts neatly stacked, electric
toothbrush plugg ed in and recha r ged – except that there were more of these
belongings than he remembered possessing. More shirts, more underwear ,
more ele ctric toothbrushes. The  air conditioning was set at the temperature
he liked  it, and a tasty snack (m elon, prosciutto, a French brie with a label
that appeared authentic) was set out on the dining-room table. The dining-
room table! He’d never had a dining-room table before.
 
 C r a k e  i n  L o v e
The lightning sizzles, the thun der booms, the rain’ s pouring down, so
heavy th e air is white, white all around, a solid mist; it’ s like glass in
motion. Snowman – goon, buf foon, poltroon – crouches on the rampart,
arms ov er his head, pelted from above like an object of gene ral derision.
He’ s hum anoid, he’ s hominid, he’ s an aberration, he’ s abominable; he’d be
legendary , if there were anyone left to relate legends.
If on ly he had an auditor besides himself, what yarns he could spin, what
whines he could whine. The lov er ’ s complaint to his mistress, o r something
along those lines. Lots to choose from there.
Because now he’ s come to the crux in his head, to the place in the tragic
play wh ere it would say: Enter Oryx . Fatal moment. But which fatal
moment? Enter O ryx as a young girl on a kiddie-porn site, flowers in h er
hair , whipped cr eam on her chi n ; or , Enter Oryx as a teenage news item,
sprung fr om a pervert’ s garage ; or , Enter Oryx, stark naked and
pedagogical in the Crakers’ inn er sanctum ; or , Enter O ryx, tow el ar ound
her hair , emer ging fr om the sho wer ; or , Enter Oryx, in a  pewter -gr ey silk
pantsuit and demur e half-high heels, carrying a briefcase, the image of a
pr ofessional Com pound globew ise saleswoman?  Wh ich of these  will it be,
and how  can he ever be sure there’ s a line connecting the first  to the last?
W as there only one Oryx, or was she legion?
But any would do, thinks Snow man as the rain runs down his face. They
are all time present, because they are all here with me now .
Oh J immy , this is so positive. I t makes me happy when you grasp this.
Paradice is lost, but you have a Paradice within you, happier far .  Then that
silvery laugh, right in his ear .
 
 
Jimmy hadn’ t spotted Oryx right away , though he must have seen her that
first afternoon when he was peering through the one-way mirror . Like the
Crakers she had no clothes on, and like the Crakers she was b eautiful, so
from a distance she didn’ t stand out. She wore her long dark hair withoutornament, her back was turned , she was surrounded by a group of other
people; just part of the scene.
A few days later , when Crake was showing him how to work th e monitor
screens that picked up images from the hidden minicams amon g the trees,
Jimmy saw her face. She turned into the camera and there it was again, that
look, tha t stare, the stare that went right into him and saw him as he truly
was. The only thing that was dif ferent about her was her eyes, which were
the same luminescent green as the eyes of the Crakers.
Gazing into those eyes, Jimmy had a moment of pure bliss, pu re terror ,
because now she was no longer a picture – no longer merely an image,
residing in secrecy and darkness in the flat printout currently stashed
between his mattress and the third cross-slat of his new Rejoov-suite bed.
Suddenly she was real, three-dimensional. He felt he’d dreamed her . How
could a person be caught that way , in an instant, by a glance, the lift of an
eyebrow , the curve of an arm? But he was.
“Who’ s that?” he asked Crake. She was carrying a young rakunk, holding
out the small animal to those a round; the others were touching it gently .
“She’ s not one of them. What’ s she doing in there?”
“She’ s their teacher ,” said Crake. “W e needed a go-between, someone
who could communicate on their level. Simple concepts, no metaphysics.”
“What’ s she teaching?” Jimmy s aid this indif ferently: bad plan f or him to
show to o much interest in any woman, in the presence of Cra ke: oblique
mockery would follow .
“Botany and zoology ,” said Cra ke with a grin. “In other words, what not
to eat and what could bite. And what not to hurt,” he added.
“For that she has to be naked?”
“They’ve never seen clothes. Clothes would only confuse them.”
The less ons Oryx taught were short: one thing at a time was best, said
Crake. The Paradice models we ren’ t stupid, but they were start ing more or
less from  scratch, so they like d repetition. Another staf f member , some
specialist in the field, would go  over the day’ s item with Oryx – the leaf,
insect, m ammal, or reptile she was about to explain. Then she’d spray
herself with a c itrus-derived chemical compound to disguise  her humanpheromones – unless she did th at there could be trouble, as the men would
smell her and th ink it was time  to mate. When she was ready , she’d slip
through a reconforming doorwa y concealed behind dense foliage. That way
she could appear and disappea r in the homeland of the Crakers without
raising awkward questions in their minds.
“They trust her ,” said Crake. “She has a great manner .”
Jimmy’ s heart sank. Crake was in love, for the first time ever . It wasn’ t
just the praise, rare enough. It was the tone of voice.
“Where’d you find her?” he asked.
“I’ve known her for a while. Ever since post-grad at W atson-Crick.”
“She was studying there?” If so, thought Jimmy , what?
“Not exactly ,” said Crake. “I encountered her through Student Services.”
“Y ou were the student, she was the service?” said Jimmy , trying to keep
it light.
“Exactly . I told them what I was looking for – you could be very specific
there, ta ke them  a picture or a video stimulation, stuf f like that, and they’d
do their best to match you up. What I wanted was something that looked
like – do you remember that W eb show? . . .”
“What W eb show?”
“I gave you a printout. From HottT otts – you know .”
“Rings no bells,” said Jimmy .
“That show we used to watch. Remember?”
“I guess,” said Jimmy . “Sort of.”
“I used the girl for my Extinctathon gateway . That one.”
“Oh, right,” said Jimmy . “Each  to his own. Y ou wanted the s ex-kiddie
look?”
“Not that she was underage, the one they came up with.”
“Of course not.”
“Then I made pr ivate arrangements. Y ou weren’ t supposed to, b ut we all
bent the rules a little.”“Rules are there to be bent,” said Jimmy . He was feeling w orse and
worse.
“Then, when I came here to head up this place, I was able to of fer her a
more of ficial position. She was delighted to accept. It was triple the pay
she’d be en getting, with a lot of perks; but also she said the work intrigued
her . I have to say she’ s a devoted employee.” Crake gave a smug little
smile, an alpha smile, and Jimmy wanted to smash him.
“Great,” he said. Knives were going through him. No sooner found than
lost agai n. Crake  was his best friend. Revision: his only friend. He wouldn’ t
be able to lay a finger on her . How could he?
 
 
They wa ited for  Oryx to come out of the shower room, where she was
removing her protective spray , and, Crake added, her luminous-green gel
contact lenses: the Crakers wou ld have found her brown eyes  of f-putting.
She em er ged finally , her hair braided now and still damp, and was
introduced, and shook Jimmy’ s hand with her own small hand. (I touched
her , thought Jimmy like a ten-year -old. I actually touched her!)
She had clothes on now , she was wearing the standard-issue l ab outfit,
the jacke t and trousers. On her it looked like lounge pyjamas. Clipped to the
pocket was her name tag: OR YX BEISA. She’d chosen it herself from the
list provided by Crake. She liked the idea of being a ge ntle water -
conserving East  African herbivore, but had been less pleased when told the
animal s he’d pic ked was extinct. Crake had needed to explain that this was
the way things were done in Paradice.
The three of them had cof fee in the Paradice staf f cafeteria. The  talk was
of the Crakers – this is what O ryx called them – and of how they were
doing. I t was the same every d ay , said Oryx. They were alw ays quietly
content. They knew how to make fire now . They’d liked the rakunk. She
found them very relaxing to spend time with.
“Do they ever a sk where they c ame from?” said Jimmy . “What they’re
doing here?” At that moment he couldn’ t have cared less, but he wanted to
join the conversation so he could to look at Oryx without being obvious.“Y ou don’ t get it,” said Crake , in his you-are-a-moron voice. “That
stuf f ’ s been edited out.”
“W ell, actually , they did ask,” said Oryx. “T oday they asked who made
them.”
“And?”
“And I told them the truth. I said it was Crake.” An admiring smile at
Crake: Jimmy could have don e without that. “I told them he was very
clever and good.”
“Did the y ask who this Crake was?” said Crake. “Did they want to see
him?”
“They didn’ t seem interested.”
 
 
Night an d day Jimmy was in tor ment. He wanted to touch Oryx , worship
her , open her u p like a beautifully wrapped package, even  though he
suspected that there was something – some harmful snake or homemade
bomb or lethal powder – concealed within. Not within her , of course.
W ithin the situation. She was of f limits, he told himself, again and again.
He b ehaved as honourably as he could: he showed no interest in her , or
he tried to show none. He took t o visiting the pleeblands, paying for girls in
bars. Gir ls with frills, with spangles, with lace, whatever was on of fer . He’d
shoot hi mself up  with Crake’ s qu icktime vaccine, and he had his  own Corps
bodyguard now , so it was quite safe. The first couple of times it was a thrill;
then it was a distraction; then it was merely a habit. None o f it was an
antidote to Oryx.
He fiddled around at his job: not much of a challenge there. The
BlyssPluss Pill would sell itself, it didn’ t need help from him. But the
of ficial launch was looming closer , so he had his staf f turn out some visuals,
a few catchy sl ogans: Throw A way Y our Condoms! BlyssPluss, for the
T otal Bo dy Exp erience! Don’ t Live a Little, Live a Lot! Simulations of a
man and  a woman, ripping of f t heir clothes, grinning like maniacs. Then a
man and a man . Then a woma n and a woman, though for that one theydidn’ t us e the condom line. Then a threesome. He could churn o ut this crap
in his sleep.
Supposing, that is, he could manage to sleep. At night he’d lie awake,
berating himself , bemoaning his fate. Berating, bemoaning , useful words.
Doldrums. Lovelorn. Leman. Forsaken. Queynt.
 
 
But then  Oryx seduced him. Wh at else to call it? She came to his suite on
purpose, she marched right in, s he had him out of his shell in two minutes
flat. It made him feel about twel ve. She was clearly a practised hand at this,
and so casual on that first occasion it took his breath away .
“I didn’ t want to see you so unhappy , Jimmy ,” was her explanation. “Not
about me.”
“How could you tell I was unhappy?”
“Oh, I always know .”
“What about Crake?” he said, after she’d hooked him that first time,
landed him, left him gasping.
“Y ou are Crake’ s friend. He wouldn’ t want you to be unhappy .”
Jimmy w asn’ t so sure about th at, but he said, “I don’ t feel ea sy about
this.”
“What are you saying, Jimmy?”
“Aren’ t you – isn’ t he . . .” What a dolt!
“Crake lives in a  higher world, J immy ,” she said. “He lives in a world of
ideas. He is doin g important things. He has no time to play . Anyway , Crake
is my boss. Y ou are for fun.”
“Y es, but . . .”
“Crake won’ t know .”
 
 
And it seemed to be true, C rake didn’ t know . Maybe he was too
mesmerized by her to notice anything; or maybe, thought Jimmy , lovereally w as blind . Or blinding. A nd Crake loved Oryx, no dou bt there; he
was alm ost abject about it. He’d touch her in public, even. Crak e had never
been a toucher , he’d been phys ically remote, but now he like d to have a
hand on Oryx: on her shoulder , her arm, her small waist, her perfect butt.
Mine , mine , that hand was saying.
Moreover , he appeared to trust her , more perhaps than he trusted Jimmy .
She was  an expert businesswoman, he said. He’d given her a slice of the
BlyssPluss trials : she had useful contacts in the pleeblands, through her old
pals who’d worked with her at S tudent Services. For that reason she had to
make a lot of trips, here and ther e around the world. Sex clinics, said Crake.
Whorehouses, said Oryx: who better to do the testing?
“Just as long as you don’ t do any testing on yourself,” said Jimmy .
“Oh no, Jimmy . Crake said not to.”
“Y ou always do what Crake tells you?”
“He is my boss.”
“He tell you to do this?”
Big eyes. “Do what, Jimmy?”
“What you’re doing right now .”
“Oh Jimmy . Y ou always make jokes.”
 
 
The times when she was away were hard for Jimmy . He worried about
her , he longed for her , he resent ed her for not being there. When she’d get
back fro m one of her trips, she ’d materialize in his room in the middle of
the nigh t: she managed to do that no matter what might be on Crake’ s
agenda. First she’d brief Crake, provide him with an acco unt of her
activities and their success – how many BlyssPluss Pills, where she’d
placed them, any results so far: an exact account, because he was so
obsessive. Then she’d take care of what she called the personal area.
Crake’ s sexual needs were dir ect and simple, according to O ryx; not
intriguing, like sex with Jimmy . Not fun, just work – although sh e respected
Crake, she really did, because he was a brilliant genius. But if Crake wantedher t o stay longer on any given night, do it again maybe, she’d  make some
excuse – jet lag, a headache, something plausible. Her inventions were
seamless, she was the best poker -faced liar in the world, so there would be a
kiss goo dbye for stupid Crake, a  smile, a wave, a closed door , a nd the next
minute there she would be, with Jimmy .
How potent was that word. W ith .
He could never get used to he r , she was fresh every time, she was a
casketful of secrets. Any momen t now she would open herself up, reveal to
him the essential thing, the hidden thing at the core of life, or of her life, or
of his life – the thing he was  longing to know . The thing he’d always
wanted. What would it be?
 
 
“What w ent on in that garage, a nyway?” said Jimmy . He couldn’ t leave
her a lone about her earlier life, h e was driven to find out. No de tail was too
small fo r him in those days, no painful splinter of her past too tiny . Perhaps
he was digging f or her anger , bu t he never found it. Either it was buried too
deeply , or it wa sn’ t there at all.  But he couldn’ t believe that. She wasn’ t a
masochist, she was no saint.
They were in Jimmy’ s bedroom, lying on the bed together with the digital
TV on, hooked into his computer , some copulation W eb site with an animal
component, a couple of well-trained German shepherds and  a double-
jointed u ltra-shaved albino tatto oed all over with lizards. The sound was
of f, it was just the pictures: erotic wallpaper .
They we re eatin g Nubbins from one of the takeout joints in th e nearest
mall, with the soyafries and the salad. Some of the salad l eaves were
spinach, from the Rejoov greenhouses: no pesticides, or none that were
admitted to. The other leaves were a cabbage splice – giant ca bbage trees,
continuous prod ucers, very productive. The stuf f had a whif f o f sewage to
it, but the special dressing drowned that out.
“What garage, Jimmy?” said O ryx. She wasn’ t paying attention. She
liked to eat wit h her fingers, s he hated cutlery . Why put a big chunk of
sharp-edged metal into your mouth? She said it made the food taste like tin.“Y ou know what garage,” he said. “The one in San Francisco. That creep.
That gee k who bought you, flew you over , got his wife to say you were the
maid.”
“Jimmy , why do you dream up such things? I was never in a garage.” She
licked h er finge rs, tore a Nubbin into bite-sized bits, fed one o f the bits to
Jimmy . Then she let him lick he r fingers for her . He ran his tongue around
the sma ll ovals of her nails. This was the closest she could  get to him
without becomin g food: she wa s in him, or part of her was in part of him.
Sex was  the other way around: while that was going on, he was in her . I’ll
make you mine , lovers said in old books. They never said, I’ll make you me .
“I know it was you,” Jimmy said. “I saw the pictures.”
“What pictures?”
“The so-called maid scandal. In San Francisco. Did that creepy old
geezer make you have sex?”
“Oh Jimmy .” A sigh. “So that is what you have in mind. I saw  that, on
TV . Why do you worry about a man like that? He was so old he was almost
dead.”
“No, but did he?”
“No one made me have sex in a garage. I told you.”
“Okay , revision: no one made you, but did you have it anyway?”
“Y ou don’ t understand me, Jimmy .”
“But I want to.”
“Do you?” A pause. “These are such good soyafries. Just imagine,
Jimmy –  millions of people in the world never ate fries like this! W e are so
lucky!”
“T ell me.” It must have been her . “I won’ t get mad.”
A s igh. “He w as a kind man ,” said Oryx, in a storytellin g voice.
Sometimes he suspected her of i mprovising, just to humour him; sometimes
he felt that her entire past – e verything she’d told him – w as his own
invention. “He was rescuing yo ung girls. He paid for my plane ticket, just
like it said. If it wasn’ t for him, I wouldn’ t be here. Y ou should like him!”“Why should I like such a h ypocritical sanctimonious bastard? Y ou
didn’ t answer my question.”
“Y es, I did, Jimmy . Now leave it alone.”
“How long did he keep you locked in the garage?”
“It w as more lik e an apartment,” said Oryx. “They didn’ t have room in
their house. I wasn’ t the only girl they took in.”
“They?”
“Him and his wife. They were trying to be helpful.”
“And she hated sex, is that it? Is that why she put up with you? Y ou were
getting the old goat of f her back?”
Oryx sig hed. “Y ou always think the worst of people, Jimmy . She was a
very spiritual person.”
“Like fuck she was.”
“Don’ t swear , Jimmy . I want to enjoy being with you. I don’ t have very
much time, I have to go soon, I need to do some business. Why do you care
about things that happened so long ago?” She leaned over him, kissed him
with her Nubbin-smeared mouth. Unguent, unctuous, sumptuous,
voluptuous, sala cious, lubriciou s, delicious , w ent the insid e of Jimmy’ s
head. He sank down into the words, into the feelings.
After a while he said, “Where are you going?”
“Oh, someplace. I’ll call you when I get there.” She never would tell him.
 
 T a k e o u t
Now comes the part that Snowman has replayed in his head time after
time. If only  haunts him. But if only  what? What could he have said or done
dif ferently? What change would  have altered the course of events? In the
big picture, nothing. In the small picture, so much.
Don’ t go. Stay her e.  A t least that wa y they would ha ve been together . She
might even have survived – why not? In which case she’d be right here with
him, right now .
I j ust want some takeout. I’m j ust going to the mall. I need so me air . I
need a walk.
Let me come with you. It’ s not safe.
Don’ t b e silly! Ther e’ s guar ds everywher e. They all know who I am.
Who’ s safer than me?
I have a gut feeling.
But Jim my’d had no gut feelin g. He’d been happy that evening, happy
and lazy . She’d arrived at his d oor an hour earlier . She’d just come from
being with the Crakers, teaching them a few more leaves and grasses, so she
was dam p from the shower . She was wearing some sort of kimo no covered
with red  and orange butterflies; her dark hair was braided with pink ribbon,
coiled u p and pinned loosely . The first thing he’d done when sh e’d arrived
at his door , hurry ing, breathless, brimming with joyous excitement or a very
good im itation of it, was to unpin her hair . The braid went three times
around his hand.
“Where’ s Crake ?” he whispered. She smelled of lemons, of  crushed
herbs.
“Don’ t worry , Jimmy .”
“But where?”
“He’ s ou tside Pa radice, he went out. He had a meeting. He doe sn’ t want
to see me when he comes back, he said he would be thinking tonight. He
never wants sex when he’ s thinking.”
“Do you love me?”That laugh of hers. What had it meant? Stupid question. Why ask? Y ou
talk too much.  Or else: What is love?  Or possibly: In your dr eams .
 
 
Then tim e passe d. Then she was  pinning her hair up again, then slipping
on her kimono, t hen tying it with  the sash. He stood behind her , watching in
the mirror . He wanted to put h is arms around her , take of f the covering
she’d just put back on, start all over again.
“Don’ t go yet,” he said, but it was never any use saying don’ t go yet  to
her . Whe n she’d  decided a thing, she was on her way . Sometim es he felt he
was merely a house call on a secret itinerary of hers – that she had a whole
list of others to be dealt with bef ore the night was over . Unworthy thoughts,
but not out of th e question. He never knew what she was doin g when she
wasn’ t with him.
“I’m com ing ba ck right away ,” she said, slipping her feet into her little
pink and red sandals. “I’ll bring pizza. Y ou want any extras, Jimmy?”
“Why d on’ t we  dump all this crap, go away somewhere?” he  said on
impulse.
“A way from here? From Paradice? Why?”
“W e could be together .”
“Jimmy , you’re funny! W e’re together now!”
“W e could get away from Cra ke,” said Jimmy . “W e wouldn’ t have to
sneak around like this, we could . . .”
“But Jimmy .” W ide eyes. “Crake needs us!”
“I think he knows,” said Jimmy .  “About us.” He didn’ t believe this; or he
believed it and not, both at the same time. Surely they’d been more and
more reckless lately . How could Crake have missed it? W as it possible for a
man that intelligent in so many ways to be acutely brain-damaged in others?
Or did Crake have a deviousness that outdid Jimmy’ s own? If so, there were
no signs.
Jimmy h ad taken to sweeping his room for bugs: the hidden mi ni-mikes,
the micro-cams. He’d known what to look for , or so he thought. But there’dbeen nothing.
 
 
There were signs, Snowman thinks. There were signs and I missed them.
For instance, Crake said once, “W ould you kill someone you  loved to
spare them pain?”
“Y ou me an, commit euthanasia?” said Jimmy . “Like putting down your
pet turtle?”
“Just tell me,” said Crake.
“I don’ t know . What kind of love, what kind of pain?”
Crake changed the subject.
Then, on e lunch time, he said, “I f anything happens to me, I’m depending
on y ou to look after the Paradice Project. Any time I’m away from here I
want you to take char ge. I’ve made it a standing order .”
“What do you mean, anything?” said Jimmy . “What could happen?”
“Y ou know .”
Jimmy thought he meant kidnapping, or being whacked by the
opposition: that was a constant h azard, for the Compound brainiacs. “Sure,”
he said, “but one, your security’ s the best, and two, there’ s peo ple in here
much better equipped than I am. I couldn’ t head up a thing like this, I don’ t
have the science.”
“These people are specialists,” said Crake. “They wouldn’ t have the
empathy to deal with the Paradi ce models, they wouldn’ t be any  good at it,
they’d get impatient. Even I couldn’ t do it. I couldn’ t begin to get onto their
wavelength. But you’re more of a generalist.”
“Meaning?”
“Y ou ha ve a great ability to sit around not doing much of anything. Just
like them.”
“Thanks,” said Jimmy .
“No, I’m serious. I want – I’d want it to be you.”“What about Oryx?” said Jimm y . “She knows the Crakers a lot better
than I do.” Jimmy and Oryx said Crakers , but Crake never did.
“If I’m not around, Oryx won’ t be either ,” said Crake.
“She’ll commit suttee? No shit! Immolate herself on your funeral pyre?”
“Something like  that,” said Crake, grinning. Which at the tim e Jimmy
had taken both as a joke and also as a symptom of Crake’ s tr uly colossal
ego.
 
 
“I think  Crake’ s  been snooping on us,” said Jimmy that last night. As
soon as it was out he saw it could be true, though maybe he was just saying
it to frighten Oryx. Stampede her , perhaps; though he had no concrete plans.
Suppose they ran, where would they live, how would they keep Crake from
finding them, what would they use for money? W ould Jimmy have to turn
pimp, live of f t he avails? Because he certainly had no marketable skills,
nothing he could use in the ple eblands, not if they went unde r ground. As
they would have to do. “I think he’ s jealous.”
“Oh Jimmy . Why would Crake be jealous? He doesn’ t approve of
jealousy . He thinks it’ s wrong.”
“He’ s human,” said Jimmy . “What he approves of is beside the point.”
“Jimmy , I think it’ s you that’ s jealous.” Oryx smiled, stood o n tiptoe,
kissed h is nose. “Y ou’re a goo d boy . But I would never leave Crake. I
believe in Crake, I believe in hi s” – she groped for the word – “his vision.
He want s to make the world a b etter place. This is what he’ s always telling
me. I think that is so fine, don’ t you, Jimmy?”
“I don’ t  believe  that,” said Jimmy . “I know it’ s what he says, but I’ve
never bo ught it. He never gave a piss about anything like that. H is interests
were strictly . . .”
“Oh, yo u are wrong, Jimmy . H e has found the problems, I think he is
right. Th ere are too many people  and that makes the people bad. I know this
from my own life, Jimmy . Crake is a very smart man!”Jimmy should have known bett er than to bad-mouth Crake. C rake was
her hero, in a way . An important way . As he, Jimmy , was not.
“Okay . P oint tak en.” At least he  hadn’ t completely blown it: she wasn’ t
angry with him. That was the main thing.
What a mushball I was, thi nks Snowman. How entranced. How
possessed. Not was , am .
“Jimmy , I want you to promise me something.”
“Sure, what?”
“If C rake isn’ t here, if he goes  away somewhere, and if I’m not here
either , I want you to take care of the Crakers.”
“Not here? Why wouldn’ t you b e here?” Anxiety again, suspicion: were
they pla nning to  go of f together , leaving him behind? W as that it? Had he
only been some sort of toy-boy for Oryx, a court jester for Cra ke? “Y ou’re
going on a honeymoon, or what?”
“Don’ t b e silly , Jimmy . They are like children, they need someone. Y ou
have to be kind with them.”
“Y ou’re looking  at the wrong man,” said Jimmy . “If I had to spend more
than five minutes with them they’d drive me nuts.”
“I know you co uld do it. I’m serious, Jimmy . Say you’ll do it,  don’ t let
me down. Promise?” She was s troking him, running a row of kisses up his
arm.
“Okay th en. Cross my heart and  hope to die. Happy now?” It d idn’ t cost
him anything, it was all purely theoretical.
“Y es, no w I’m happy . I’ll be very quick, Jimmy , then we can  eat. Y ou
want anchovies?”
 
 
What did she have in mind? Snowman wonders, for the millionth time.
How much did she guess?
 
 A i r l o c k
He’d waited for her , at first with impatience, then with anx iety , then
panic. It shouldn’ t take them that long to make a couple of pizzas.
The first bulletin came in at nin e forty-five. Because Crake was of f-site
and Jim my was second-in-com mand, they sent a staf f member from the
video monitor room to get him.
At first Jimmy t hought it was ro utine, another minor epidemic or splotch
of b ioterrorism, just another news item. The boys and gir ls with the
HotBiosuits and  the flame-throwers and the isolation tents and the crates of
bleach and the lime pits would take care of it as usual. Anyway , it was in
Brazil. Far enough away . But Crake’ s standing order was to report any
outbreaks, of anything, anywhere, so Jimmy went to look.
Then the next on e hit, and the next, the next, the next, rapid-fire . T aiwan,
Bangkok, Saudi  Arabia, Bombay , Paris, Berlin. The pleeblands west of
Chicago. The maps on the monitor screens lit up, spackled with red as if
someone had flicked a loaded pa intbrush at them. This was more than a few
isolated plague spots. This was major .
Jimmy tried phoning Crake on his cell, but he got no reply . He told the
monitor crew to go to the news channels. It was a rogue hemor rhagic, said
the com mentators. The symptom s were high fever , bleeding from the eyes
and skin , convulsions, then breakdown of the inner or gans, followed by
death. T he time from visible on set to final moment was amazingly short.
The bug appeared to be airborne, but there might be a water factor as well.
Jimmy’ s cellpho ne rang. It was Oryx. “Where are you?” he shouted. “Get
back here. Have you seen . . .”
Oryx was crying. This was so unusual Jimmy was rattled by it. “Oh
Jimmy ,” she said. “I am so sorry . I did not know .”
“It’ s all right,” he said, to soothe her . Then, “What do you mean?”
“It was in the pills. It was in tho se pills I was giving away , the ones I was
selling. It’ s all the same cities, I went there. Those pills were supposed to
help people! Crake said . . .”The connection was broken. H e tried dialback: ring ring ring . Then a
click. Then nothing.
What if  the thing was alread y inside Rejoov? What if she’d been
exposed? When she turned up at the door he couldn’ t lock her out. He
couldn’ t bear to do that, even if she was bleeding from every pore.
 
 
By m idnight the hits were comin g almost simultaneously . Dallas. Seattle.
New New Y ork. The thing didn’ t appear to be spreading from city to city: it
was breaking out in a number of them simultaneously .
There w ere three staf f in the room now: Rhino, Beluga, White Sedge.
One was  humm ing, one whistling; the third – White Sedge – was crying.
This is the biggie.  T wo of them had already said that.
“What’ s our fallback?”
“What should we do?”
“Nothing,” said Jimmy , trying not to panic. “W e’re safe enough  here. W e
can wai t it out. There’ s enough supplies in the storeroom.”  He looked
around a t the three nervous faces. “W e have to protect the Parad ice models.
W e don’ t know the incubation period, we don’ t know who could be a
carrier . W e can’ t let anybody in.”
This reassured them a little. He  went out of the monitor room, reset the
codes o f the inmost door , and  also those on the door leading into the
airlock. While he was doing this his videocell beeped. It was Crake. His
face on the tiny screen looked much as usual; he appeared to be in a bar .
“Where are you?” Jimmy yelled. “Don’ t you know what’ s going on?”
“Not to worry ,”  said Crake. “Everything’ s under control.” He sounded
drunk, a rare thing for him.
“What fucking everything ? It’ s a worldwide plague! It’ s the Red Death!
What’ s this about it being in the BlyssPluss Pills?”
“Who to ld you that?” said Crak e. “A little bird?” He was drunk for sure;
drunk, or on some pharmaceutical.
“Never mind. It’ s true, isn’ t it?”“I’m in the mall , at the pizza place. I’ll be there right away ,” said Crake.
“Hold the fort.”
Crake hung up. Maybe he’ s foun d Oryx, Jimmy thought. Maybe he’ll get
her back safely . Then he thought, Y ou halfwit.
He went to chec k up on the Paradice Project. The night-sky simulation
was on, the faux moon was shining, the Crakers – as far as he could tell –
were peacefully asleep. “Sweet dreams,” he whispered to them through the
glass. “Sleep tight. Y ou’re the only ones now who can.”
 
 
What ha ppened then was a slow-motion sequence. It was porn  with the
sound muted, it was brainfriz z without the ads. It was melodrama so
overdone that he and Crake would have laughed their heads of f at it, if
they’d been fourteen and watching it on DVD.
First came the waiting. He sat in a chair in his of fice, told himself to calm
down. The old wordlists were whipping through his head: fungible,
pullulate, pistic,  cer ements, trull . After a while he stood up. Prattlement,
opsimath . He turned on his computer , w ent through the news sites. There
was a lot of dism ay out there, an d not nearly enough ambulances. The keep-
calm politico speeches were already underway , the stay-in-your -house
megaphone vehicles were prowling the streets. Prayer had broken out.
Concatenation. Subfusc. Grutch.
He w ent to the emer gency storeroom, picked up a spraygun, s trapped it
on, put a loose tropical jacket over top. He went back to the monitor room
and told the three staf f that he’d talked with CorpSeCorps Security for the
Compound – a lie – and they were in no immediate danger here; also a lie,
he suspected. He added that he’d heard from Crake, whose orders were that
they sho uld all go back to their rooms and get some sleep, b ecause they
would n eed thei r ener gy in the  days to come. They seemed relieved, and
happy to comply .
Jimmy accompa nied them to the  airlock and coded them into the corridor
that led to their sleeping quarter s. He watched their backs as they walked in
front of him; he saw them as already dead. He was sorry about that, but hecouldn’ t take chances. They were three to his one: if th ey became
hysterical, if they tried to break  out of the complex or let their friends into
it, h e wouldn’ t be able to control them. Once they were out of sight he
locked them out, and himself in. Nobody in the inner bubble now but
himself and the Crakers.
He watc hed the news some more, drinking Scotch to fortify himself, but
spacing his intake. W indlestraw . Laryngeal. Banshee. W oad.  He was
waiting for Oryx, but without hope. Something must have happ ened to her .
Otherwise she’d be here.
T owards dawn the door monitor beeped. Someone was punching in the
numbers for the airlock. It wou ldn’ t work, of course, because Jimmy had
changed the code.
The vid eo intercom jangled. “What are you doing?” said Crake. He
looked and sounded annoyed. “Open up.”
“I’m fol lowing Plan B,” said Jimmy . “In the event of a bio attack, don’ t
let anybody in. Y our orders. I’ve sealed the airlock.”
“ Anybody  didn’ t mean me,” said Crake. “Don’ t be a cork-nut.”
“How do I know you’re not a carrier?” said Jimmy .
“I’m not.”
“How do I know that?”
“Let’ s ju st suppose,” said Crake wearily , “that I anticipated this event and
took precautions. Anyway , you’re immune to this.”
“Why would I be?” said Jimmy . His brain was slow on logic tonight.
There w as some thing wrong with what Crake had just said, but he couldn’ t
pinpoint it.
“The antibody serum was in the pleeb vaccine. Remember all those times
you shot up with  that stuf f? Eve ry time you went to the pleebs to wallow in
the mud and drown your lovesick sorrows.”
“How did you k now?” said Jimmy . “How did you know where  I, what I
wanted?” His heart was racing; he wasn’ t being precise.
“Don’ t be a moron. Let me in.”Jimmy coded open the door into the airlock. Now Crake was at the
inmost door . Jimmy turned on the airlock video monitor: Crake’ s head
floated l ife-sized, right in front of his eyes. He looked wrecked. There was
something – blood? – on his shirt collar .
“Where were you?’ said Jimmy . “Have you been in a fight?”
“Y ou have no idea,” said Crake. “Now let me in.”
“Where’ s Oryx?”
“She’ s right here with me. She’ s had a hard time.”
“What happened to her? What’ s going on out there? Let me talk to her!”
“She can’ t talk r ight now . I can’ t lift her up. I’ve had a few injuries. Now
quit fucking the dog and let us in.”
Jimmy took out his spraygun. Then he punched in the code. He stood
back and to the side. All the hairs on his arms were standing up. W e
understand mor e than we know .
The door swung open.
Crake’ s beige tropicals were sp lattered with redbrown. In his r ight hand
was an ordinary storeroom jackknife, the kind with the two blades and the
nail file and the corkscrew and  the little scissors. He had his other arm
around O ryx, wh o seemed to be  asleep; her face was against Crake’ s chest,
her long pink-ribboned braid hung down her back.
As Jimmy watched, frozen with disbelief, Crake let Oryx fall backwards,
over his left arm. He looked at Jimmy , a direct look, unsmiling.
“I’m counting on you,” he said. Then he slit her throat.
Jimmy shot him.
 
 B u b b l e
In th e af termath of the storm the air is cooler . Mist rises from the distant
trees, the sun de clines, the birds are beginning their evening ra cket. Three
crows a re flying overhead, their wings black flames, their words almost
audible. Crake! Crake!  they’re saying. The crickets are saying Oryx . I’m
hallucinating, thinks Snowman.
He p rogresses along the rampar t, step by wrenching step. His foot feels
like a gigantic boiled wiener stuf fed with hot, masticated flesh, boneless
and about to burst. Whatever bug is fermenting inside it is evidently
resistant to the a ntibiotics in the watchtower ointment. Maybe in Paradice,
in the jumble of Crake’ s ransacked emer gency storeroom – he knows how
ransacked it is, he did the ransacking himself – he’ll be a ble to find
something more ef fective.
Crake’ s emer gen cy storeroom. Crake’ s wonderful plan. Crake’ s cutting-
edge ide as. Crake, King of the Crakery , because Crake is still there, still in
possession, still the ruler of his own domain, however dark that bubble of
light has now become. Darker than dark, and some of that darkness is
Snowman’ s. He helped with it.
“Let’ s not go there,” says Snowman.
Sweetie, you’r e alr eady ther e. Y ou’ve never left.
 
 
At the eighth w atchtower , the one overlooking the park sur rounding
Paradice, he checks to see if either of the doors leading to the upper room
are unlocked – he’d prefer to descend by a stairway , if possible – but they
aren’ t. Cautiously he surveys the ground below through one of the
observation slits: no lar ge or m edium-sized life forms visible down there,
though there’ s a scuttering in the underbrush he hopes is only a squirrel. He
unpacks his twisted sheet, ties it to a ventilation pipe – flimsy , but the only
possibility – and lowers the free end over the edge of the rampart. It’ s about
seven feet short, but he can stand the drop, as long as he doesn’ t land on his
bad foot. Over he goes, hand over hand down the ersatz rope. He hangs at
the end of it like a spider , hesitates – isn’ t there a technique for doing this?What has he read about parachutes? Something about bending your knees.
Then he lets go.
He l ands two-footed. The pain is intense, but after rolling around on the
muddy ground for a time and  making speared-animal noises, he hauls
himself whimpering to his feet. Revision: to his foot. Nothing seems to be
broken. He looks around for a stick to use as a crutch, finds one. Good thing
about sticks, they grow on trees.
Now he’ s thirsty .
Through the verdure and upsp ringing weeds he goes, hoppity hoppity
hop, gritting his teeth. On the way he steps on a huge banana slug, almost
falls. He hates that feeling: cold , viscous, like a peeled, refrigera ted muscle.
Creeping snot. If he were a Crak er he’d have to apologize to it – I’m sorry I
stepped on you, Child of Oryx, please for give my clumsiness .
He tries it out: “I’m sorry .”
Did he hear something? An answer?
When the slugs begin to talk there’ s no time to lose.
He r eaches the b ubble-dome, cir cles around the white, hot, icy swell of it
to the front. The airlock door is open, as he remembers it. A deep breath,
and in he goes.
Here are  Crake and Oryx, what’ s left of them. They’ve been vulturized,
they’re scattered here and there, small and lar ge bones mingled and in
disarray , like a giant jigsaw puzzle.
Here’ s Snowma n, thick as a brick, dunderhead, frivol, and du pe, water
running down his face, giant fist clenching his heart, staring down at his one
true lov e and his best friend in all the world. Crake’ s empty eye sockets
look up at Snow man, as his emp ty eyes, once before. He’ s grinning with all
the teeth  in his head. As for Or yx, she’ s face down, she’ s turn ed her head
away from him as if in mourning. The ribbon in her hair is as pink as ever .
Oh, how to lament? He’ s a failure even at that.
 
 Snowman goes through the inne r doorway , past the security area , into the
staf f living quarters. W arm air , humid, unfresh. The first place he needs is
the stor eroom; he finds it w ithout dif ficulty . Dark except for a few
skylights, but he’ s got his flashlight. There’ s a smell of mildew and of rats
or mice, but otherwise the place is untouched since he was last here.
He locates the medical-supply shelves, roots around. T ongue depressors,
gauze pads, burn dressings. A box of rectal thermometers, but  he doesn’ t
need one of them  stuf fed up his  anus to tell him he’ s burning up. Three or
four kinds of an tibiotics, pill form and therefore slow-acting, p lus one last
bottle of Crake’ s super germicid e short-term pleebland cocktai l. Gets you
ther e an d back, but don’ t stay un til the clock strikes midnight or you’ll turn
into a pumpkin , i s what Crake  used to say . He reads the label, Crake’ s
precise notations, estimates the  measurement. He’ s so weak now he can
hardly lift the bottle; it takes him a while to get the top of f.
Glug glug glug , says his voice balloon. Down the hatch.
But no, he shouldn’ t drink it. He finds a box of clean syringe s, shoots
himself up. “Bite the dust, foot germs,” he says. Then he hobbles to his own
suite, what used to be his own suite, and collapses onto the da mp unmade
bed, and goes brownout.
 
 
Alex the parrot comes to him in a dream. It flies in through the window ,
lands clo se to him on the pillow , bright green this time with p urple wings
and a yellow beak, glowing like a beacon, and Snowman is suf fused with
happiness and love. It cocks its head, looks at him first with one eye, then
the other . “The blue triangle,” it says. Then it begins to flush, to turn red,
beginning with the eye. This change is frightening, as if it’ s a parrot-shaped
light bulb filling up with blood. “I’m going away now ,” it says.
“No, wa it,” Snowman calls, or wants to call. His mouth won’ t move.
“Don’ t go yet! T ell me . . .”
Then there’ s a rush of wind, whuf f, and Alex is gone, and Snowman is
sitting up in his former bed, in the dark, drenched in sweat.
 
 S c r i b b l e
The next morning his foot is somewhat better . The swelling has gone
down, the pain has decreased. When evening falls he’ll give himself another
shot of Crake’ s superdrug. He knows he can’ t overdo it, however: the stuf f
is very potent. T oo much of it and his cells will pop like grapes.
Daylight filters through the insulating glass bricks facing the skylight
window well. He roams around  the space he once inhabited, feeling like a
disembodied sensor . Here is his closet, here are the clothe s once his,
tropical-weight shirts and shorts , ranged neatly on hangers and beginning to
moulder . Footwe ar too, but he can no longer stand the thought of footwear .
It would be like adding hooves, plus his infected foot might not fit.
Underpants in stacks on the shelves. Why did he used to wear such
garments? They appear to him now as some sort of weird bondage gear .
In the storeroom  he finds some  packets and cans. For breakfa st he has
cold rav ioli in tomato sauce and half a Joltbar , washed down w ith a warm
Coke. N o hard liquor or beer le ft, he’d gone through all of that during the
weeks he’d been sealed in here. Just as well. His impulse would have been
to drink it up as fast as possible, turn all memory to white noise.
No h ope of that now . He’ s stuck in time past, the wet sand is ris ing. He’ s
sinking down.
 
 
After he ’d shot Crake, he’d recoded the inner door , sealed it sh ut. Crake
and Ory x lay intertwined in the  airlock; he couldn’ t bear to touch them, so
he’d lef t them where they were. He’d had a fleeting romantic impulse –
maybe he should cut of f a piece of Oryx’ s dark braid – but he’d resisted it.
He went back to his room and drank some Scotch and then some more, as
much as it took to conk himself out. What woke him up was  the buzzer
from the  outer door: White Sed ge and Black Rhino, trying to get back in.
The others too, no doubt. Jimmy ignored them.
Some tim e the next day he made  four slices of soytoast, forced himself to
eat them. Drank a bottle of wat er . His entire body felt like a stubbed toe:
numb but also painful. 
 
During the day his cellphone rang. A high-ranking Corpsman, looking
for Crake.
“T ell that fucker to get his big fat brain the fuck over here and help figure
this thing out.”
“He isn’ t here,” said Jimmy .
“Who is this?”
“I can’ t tell you. Security protocol.”
“Listen, whoeve r you are, I have an idea what sort of scam that creep’ s
up to and when  I lay my hands on him I’m going to break his  neck. I bet
he’ s got the vaccine for this and he’ s gonna hold us up for an arm and a
leg.”
“Really? Is that what you think?” said Jimmy .
“I know the bastard’ s there. I’m coming over and blow the door in.”
“I wouldn’ t do that,” said Jimmy . “W e’re seeing some very strange
microbe activity here. V ery unusual. The place is hotter tha n hell. I’m
toughing it out in a biosuit, but I don’ t really know w hether I’m
contaminated or not. Something’ s really gone of f the rails.”
“Oh shit. Here? In Rejoov? I thought we were sealed of f.”
“Y eah, it’ s a bad break,” said Jimmy . “My advice is, look in B ermuda. I
think he went there with a lot of cash.”
“So he sold us out, the little shit. Hawked it deliberately to the
competition. That would figure. That would absolutely figure. Listen,
thanks for the tip.”
“Good luck,” said Jimmy .
“Y eah, sure, same to you.”
Nobody else buzzed the outer door , nobody tried to break in. The Rejoov
folks must have got the message. As for the staf f, once they’d realized the
guards w ere gone they must have rushed outside and made a be eline for the
outer gate. For what they’d confused with freedom. 
 
Three times a da y Jimmy checked on the Crakers, peering in at them like
a v oyeur . Scrap the simile: he was a voyeur . They seemed happy  enough, or
at least contente d. They grazed, they slept, they sat for long hours doing
what appeared to be nothing. T he mothers nursed their babies, the young
ones played. The men peed in a circle. One of the women ca me into her
blue phase and t he men performed their courtship dance, singing , flowers in
hand, az ure penises waving in time. Then there was a quintuplet fertility
fest, of f among the shrubbery .
Maybe I could do some social  interaction, thought Jimmy . Help them
invent the wheel. Leave a legacy of knowledge. Pass on all my words.
No, he couldn’ t. No hope there.
Sometimes they  looked uneasy – they’d gather in groups, they’d  murmur .
The hidden mikes picked them up.
“Where is Oryx? When is she coming back?”
“She always comes back.”
“She should be here, teaching us.”
“She is always teaching us. She is teaching us now .”
“Is she here?”
“Here and not here is the same thing, for Oryx. She said that.”
“Y es. She said it.”
“What does it mean?”
It was like som e demented theology debate in the windier corners of
chat-room limbo. Jimmy couldn’ t stand listening to it for very long.
 
 
The rest  of the time he himself grazed, slept, sat for long ho urs doing
nothing. For the first two weeks he followed world events on the Net, or
else on the television news: the riots in the cities as transport ation broke
down an d supermarkets were raided; the explosions as electrical systemsfailed, the fires no one came to  extinguish. Crowds packed the churches,
mosques, synag ogues, and temples to pray and repent, then poured out of
them as the worshippers woke up to their increased risk of expo sure. There
was an exodus to small towns a nd rural areas, whose inhabitants fought of f
the refugees as long as they c ould, with banned firearms or clubs and
pitchforks.
At first the newscasters were thoroughly into it, filming the action from
traf fic h elicopters, exclaiming as if at a football match: Did you  see that?
Unbelievable! Brad, nobody can quite believe it. What we’ve just seen is a
crazed mob of God’ s Gar deners, liberating a ChickieNobs pr oduction
facility . Brad, this is hilarious,  those ChickieNob things can’ t even walk!
(Laughter .) Now , back to the studio.
 
 
It m ust have been during the initial mayhem, thinks Snowman, that some
genius let out the pigoons and the wolvogs. Oh, thanks a bundle.
 
 
Street preachers took to self-flagellation and ranting about the
Apocalypse, though they seemed disappointed: where were the trumpets
and ange ls, why  hadn’ t the moo n turned to blood? Pundits in suits appeared
on the screen; medical experts, graphs showing infection rates, maps tracing
the extent of the epidemic. They used dark pink for that, as for the British
Empire once. Jimmy would have preferred some other colour .
There w as no disguising the fear of the commentators. Who’ s next, Brad?
When ar e they going to have a vaccine? W ell, Simon, they’r e working r ound
the cloc k fr om what I hear , but nobody’ s claiming to have a ha ndle on this
thing ye t. It’ s a biggie, Brad. Simon, you said a mouthful, but we’ve licked
some biggies befor e.  E ncour aging g rin, thumbs-up sign, unfocused eyes,
facial pallor .
Documentaries were hastily thro wn together , with images of the virus –
at least they’d isolated it, it looked like the usual melting gumdrop with
spines – and commentary on its methods. This appears to be a supervirulent
splice. Whether it’ s a species-jumping mutation or a deliberate fabricationis anybody’ s guess.  Sag e nods all round. They’d given the virus a name, to
make it seem more manageable . Its name was JUVE, Jetspeed Ultra V irus
Extraordinary . Possibly they now  knew something, such as what Crake had
really be en up to, hidden safely in the deepest core of the RejoovenEsense
Compound. Sitting in judgment on the world, thought Jimmy; but why had
that been his right?
Conspiracy theories proliferated: it was a religious thing, it was God’ s
Gardeners, it was a plot to gain  world control. Boil-water and don’ t-travel
advisories were issued in the first week, handshaking was discouraged. In
the s ame week there was a run on latex gloves and nose-cone filters. About
as ef fective, thought Jimmy , as oranges stuck with cloves durin g the Black
Death.
This just in. The  JUVE killer v irus has br oken out in Fiji, spar ed until
now . Co rpSeCorps chief declar es New New Y ork a disaster ar ea. Major
arteries sealed off.
Brad, this item is moving very fast. Simon, it’ s unbelievable.
“Change can be accommodated  by any system depending on its rate,”
Crake u sed to say . “T ouch your  head to a wall, nothing happens, but if the
same head hits the same wall at ninety miles an hour , it’ s red paint. W e’re in
a speed tunnel, Jimmy . When the water ’ s moving faster than the boat, you
can’ t control a thing.”
I listened, thought Jimmy , but I didn’ t hear .
 
 
In th e second w eek, there was full mobilization. The hastily a ssembled
epidemic managers called the shots – field clinics, isolation tents; whole
towns, then whole cities quarantined. But these ef forts soon broke down as
the doctors and nurses caught the thing themselves, or panicked and fled.
England closes ports and airports.
All communication fr om India has ceased.
Hospitals ar e off limits until further notice. If you feel ill, drink plenty of
water and call the following hotline number .Do not, r epeat do not, attempt to exit cities.
It wasn’ t Brad ta lking any more, or Simon. Brad and Simon were gone. It
was other people, and then others.
Jimmy c alled the hotline number and got a recording saying it w as out of
service. Then he called his fathe r , a thing he hadn’ t done in yea rs. That line
was out of service too.
He searc hed his  e-mail. No rec ent messages. All he found w as an old
birthday card he’d failed to delete: Happy Birthday , Jimmy , May All Y our
Dr eams Come T rue . Pigs with wings.
One of the priva tely run W eb sit es showed a map, with lit-up points on it
for each place that was still communicating via satellite. Jimmy watched
with fascination as the points of light blinked out.
 
 
He was in shoc k. That must ha ve been why he couldn’ t take it in. The
whole th ing seemed like a movie. Y et there he was, and there  were Oryx
and Crak e, dead , in the airlock. Any time he found himself thinking it was
all an illusion, a  practical joke of some kind, he went and looked at them.
Through the bulletproof window , of course: he knew he shouldn’ t open the
innermost door .
He lived  of f Crake’ s emer gency stores, the frozen goods first: if the
bubble’ s solar system failed, the freezers and microwaves would no longer
work, so  he might as well eat his way through the ChickieNobs Gourmet
Dinners while he had the chance. He smoked up Crake ’ s stash of
skunkweed in no time flat; he managed to miss about three da ys of horror
that way . He rationed the booze at first, but soon he was getting through
quite a pile of it . He needed to be fried just to face the news, h e needed to
be feeling not much.
“I don’ t believe it, I don’ t beli eve it,” he’d say . He’d begun talking to
himself out loud, a bad sign. “It isn’ t happening.” How could he exist in this
clean, dry , monotonous, ordinary room, gobbling caramel soycorn and
zucchini cheese puf fs and addling his brain on spirituous liquors andbrooding on the total fiasco that was his personal life, while the entire
human race was kakking out?
The worst of it was that those p eople out there – the fear , the suf fering,
the wholesale death – did not really touch him. Crake used to say that Homo
sapiens sapiens  was not hard-w ired to individuate other people in numbers
above tw o hund red, the size of the primal tribe, and Jimmy would reduce
that num ber to two. Had Oryx lo ved him, had she loved him not, did Crake
know ab out the m, how much did he know , when did he know  it, was he
spying on them all along? Did he set up the grand finale as an assisted
suicide, had he intended to have Jimmy shoot him because he knew what
would happen next and he didn ’ t deign to stick around to watch the results
of what he’d done?
Or did he know  he wouldn’ t be able to withhold the formula for the
vaccine, once the CorpSeCorps got to work on him? How long had he been
planning this? Could it be that Uncle Pete, and possibly even Crake’ s own
mother , had been trial runs? W it h so much at stake, was he afrai d of failure,
of b eing just one more incom petent nihilist? Or was he to rmented by
jealousy , was he addled by love, was it revenge, did he just want Jimmy to
put him  out of his misery? Had he been a lunatic or an intellectually
honourable man  who’d thought things through to their logical conclusion?
And was there any dif ference?
And so on and so forth, spinning the emotional wheels and sucking down
the hootch until he could blank himself out.
 
 
Meanwhile, the end of a species was taking place before his v ery eyes.
Kingdom, Phylu m, Class, Order , Family , Genus, Species. How many legs
does it have? Homo sapiens sapiens , joining the polar bear , the beluga
whale, t he onager , the burrowing owl, the long, long list. Oh, big points,
Grandmaster .
Sometimes he’d turn of f the sou nd, whisper words to himself. Succulent.
Morphology . Purblind. Quarto. Frass.  It had a calming ef fect.
 
 Site afte r site, channel after channel went dead. A couple of the  anchors,
news jo cks to the end, set the cameras to film their own deaths – the
screams, the dissolving skins, the ruptured eyeballs and all. How theatrical,
thought Jimmy . Nothing some people won’ t do to get on TV .
“Y ou cynical shit,” he told himself. Then he started to weep.
“Don’ t be so fucking sentimental,” Crake used to tell him. But why not?
Why sho uldn’ t h e be sentimental? It wasn’ t as if there was any one around
to question his taste.
Once in  a while he considered killing himself – it seemed ma ndatory –
but somehow he didn’ t have the  required ener gy . Anyway , killing yourself
was something you did for an audience, as on nitee-nite.com . Under the
circumstances, t he here and now , it was a gesture that lacked e legance. He
could im agine C rake’ s amused contempt, and the disappointme nt of Oryx:
But Jimmy! Why do you give up? Y ou have a job to do! Y ou pr omised,
r emember?
Perhaps he failed to take seriously his own despair .
 
 
Finally t here wa s nothing more to watch, except old movies on DVD. He
watched Humphrey Bogart and Edward G. Robinson in Key Lar go . He
wants m or e, do n’ t you, Rocco? Y eah, that’ s it, mor e! That’ s right, I want
mor e. W ill you ever get enough?  Or else he watc hed Alfred Hitchcock’ s The
Bir ds . Flapflapflap, eek, scr eech . Y ou could see the strings where the avian
superstars were tied to the roof. Or he watched Night of the Living Dead .
Lur ch, aar gh, gnaw , choke, gur gle . Su ch m inor pa ranoias were soothing to
him.
Then he’d turn it of f, sit in front of the empty screen. All the women he’d
ever known would pass in front of his eyes in the semi-darkness. His
mother too, in her magenta dre ssing gown, young again. Oryx came last,
carrying white flowers. She loo ked at him, then walked slowl y out of his
field of vision, into the shadows where Crake was waiting.
These reveries were almost ple asurable. At least while they w ere going
on everyone was still alive. 
 
He knew  this state of af fairs couldn’ t continue much longe r . Inside
Paradice proper , the Crakers were munching up the leaves and grasses
faster than they could regenerate , and one of these days the solar  would fail,
and the backup would fail too,  and Jimmy had no idea about how to fix
those th ings. Then the air circu lation would stop and the doorlock would
freeze, and both he and the Crak ers would be trapped inside, an d they’d all
suf focate. He had to get them out while there was still time, but not too
soon or there would still be som e desperate people out there, an d desperate
would mean dangerous. What he didn’ t want was a bunch of disintegrating
maniacs falling on their knees, clawing at him: Cur e us!  Cur e us!  He might
be immune from the virus – unl ess, of course, Crake had been lying to him
– but not from the rage and despair of its carriers.
Anyway , how could he have the heart to stand there and say: Nothing can
save you?
 
 
In the half-light, in the dank, S nowman wanders from space to space.
Here for instance is his of fice. His computer sits on the desk , turning a
blank fa ce to him like a discar ded girlfriend encountered by chance at a
party . Be side the computer are a few sheets of paper , which mus t have been
the l ast he’d ever written. The last he’d ever write. He picks th em up with
curiosity . What is it that the Jimmy he’d once been had seen fit to
communicate, or at least to record – to set down in black and white, with
smudges – for the edification of a world that no longer existed?
T o whom it may concern , Jimmy  had written, in ballpoint rather than
printout: his computer was fried by then, but he’d persevered, laboriously ,
by hand . He must still have had  hope, he must still have believed that the
situation could be turned around , that someone would show up  here in the
future, s omeone in authority; that his words would have a meaning then, a
context. As Crake had once said, Jimmy was a romantic optimist.
I don’ t have much time , Jimmy had written.
Not a bad beginning, thinks Snowman. 
 
I don’ t have much time, but I wi ll try to set down what I believe to be the
explanation for the recent extraordinary events  catastrophe. I have gone
through the computer of the ma n known here as Crake. He left it turned on
– deliberately , I believe – and I  am able to report that the JUVE virus was
made he re in the Paradice dom e by splicers hand-selected by Crake and
subsequently eliminated , and was then encysted in the BlyssPluss product.
There was a time-lapse factor built in to allow for wide distribution: the first
batch of virus did not become active until all selected territories had been
seeded, and the outbreak thu s took the form of a series of rapidly
overlapping waves. For the success of the plan, time was of the essence.
Social disruption was maximize d, and development of a vaccine ef fectively
prevented. Crake himself had developed a vaccine concurrently with the
virus, but he had destroyed it prior to his assisted suicide  death.
Although variou s staf f members of the BlyssPluss project contr ibuted to
JUVE on a piec ework basis, it i s my belief that none, with the exception of
Crake, was cognizant of what that ef fect would be. As for Crake’ s motives,
I can only speculate. Perhaps . . .
 
 
Here the handwriting stops. Whatever Jimmy’ s speculations might have
been on the subject of Crake’ s motives, they had not been recorded.
Snowman crump les the sheets u p, drops them onto the floor . It’ s the fate
of these words to be eaten by be etles. He could have mentioned the change
in Crake’ s fridge magnets. Y ou could tell a lot about a person from their
fridge magnets, not that he’d thought much about them at the time.
 
 R e m n a n t
On the second F riday of March – he’d been marking of f the days on a
calendar , god knows why – Jimmy showed himself to the Crakers for the
first time. He didn’ t take his clothes of f, he drew the line at that. He wore a
set o f standard-issue Rejoov kh aki tropicals, with mesh underarms and a
thousand pockets, and his favourite fake-leather sandals. The Crakers
gathered around  him, gazing at him with quiet wonder: they’d never seen
textiles before. The children whispered and pointed.
“Who ar e you?”  said the one Crake had christened Abraham L incoln. A
tall m an, brown, thinnish. It was not said impolitely . From an o rdinary man
Jimmy would have found it brusque, even aggressive, but these people
didn’ t g o in for fancy lang uage: they hadn’ t been taught evasion,
euphemism, lily-gilding. In speech they were plain and blunt.
“My nam e is Snowman,” said Jimmy , who had thought this over . He no
longer w anted t o be Jimmy , or even Jim, and especially not Thickney: his
incarnation as Thickney hadn’ t worked out well. He needed to for get the
past – the distant past, the imme diate past, the past in any form. He needed
to exist only in  the present, without guilt, without expectat ion. As the
Crakers did. Perhaps a dif ferent name would do that for him.
“Where have you come from, oh Snowman?”
“I come  from the place of Oryx  and Crake,” he said. “Crake sent me.”
T rue, in  a way . “And Oryx.” H e keeps the sentence structure simple, the
message clear: he knows how to do this from watching Oryx through the
mirror wall. And from listening to her , of course.
“Where has Oryx gone?”
“She had  some things to do,” said Snowman. That was all he could come
up with: simply pronouncing her name had choked him up.
“Why h ave Cra ke and Oryx se nt you to us?” asked the woman called
Madame Curie.
“T o take you to a new place.”
“But this is our place. W e are content where we are.”“Oryx and Crake wish you to have a better place than th is,” said
Snowman. “Where there will be more to eat.” There were nods, smiles.
Oryx and Crake wished them we ll, as they’d always known. It seemed to be
enough for them.
“Why is your skin so loose?” said one of the children.
“I was made in a dif ferent way from you,” Snowman said. He was
beginning to find this conversation of interest, like a game. These people
were lik e blank pages, he could write whatever he wanted on th em. “Crake
made me with two kinds of skin. One comes of f.” He took of f his tropical
vest to show them. They stared with interest at the hair on his chest.
“What is that?”
“These are feathers. Little feathers. Oryx gave them to me, as a special
favour . See? More feathers ar e growing out of my face.” He lets the
children touch the stubble. He’d been lax about shaving lately , there seemed
little point to it, so his beard was sprouting.
“Y es. W e see. But what are feathers?”
Oh, right. They’d never seen any . “Some of the Children of Oryx have
feathers on them,” he said. “Th at kind are called birds. W e’ll go to where
they are. Then you’ll know about feathers.”
Snowman marv elled at his own facility: he was dancing gracefully
around t he truth, light-footed, light-fingered. But it was almost too easy:
they accepted, without question , everything he said. Much mo re of this –
whole d ays, wh ole weeks of it – and he could see himself screaming with
boredom. I could leave them behind, he thought. Just leave them. Let them
fend for themselves. They aren’ t my business.
But he couldn’ t do that, beca use although the Crakers weren’ t his
business, they were now his responsibility . Who else did they have?
Who else did he have, for that matter?
 
 
Snowman plann ed the route in  advance: Crake’ s storeroom was well
supplied with maps. He’d take the Children of Crake to the seas hore, wherehe h imself had never been. It was something to look forward to: at last he
would see the oc ean. He’d walk on a beach, as in stories told by the grown-
ups whe n he was young. He mi ght even go swimming. It wouldn’ t be too
bad.
The Cra kers cou ld live in the park near the arboretum, coloured  green on
the map and marked with a tree symbol. They’d feel at home there, and
certainly there would be lots of edible foliage. As for himself, there would
surely be fish. H e gathered together some supplies – not too much, not too
heavy , h e’d have to carry it all – and loaded up his spraygun with the full
complement of virtual bullets.
The eve ning before the departure, he gave a talk. On the way  to their
new , better place, he would walk ahead – he said – with two of the men. He
picked th e talles t. Behind them w ould come the women and chil dren, with a
file of men to either side. The rest of the men would walk behind. They
needed to do thi s because Crake had said that this was the proper way . (It
was best to avoi d mentioning the possible dangers: those would  require too
much exposition.) If the Crakers noticed anything moving – any thing at all,
in whatever shape or form – they were to tell him at once. Some of the
things they might see would be puzzling, but they were not to be alarmed. If
they told him in time, these things would not be able to hurt them.
“Why would they hurt us?” asked Sojourner T ruth.
“They might hurt you by mistake,” said Snowman. “As the ground hurts
you when you fall on it.”
“But it is not the ground’ s wish to hurt us.”
“Oryx has told us that the ground is our friend.”
“It grows our food for us.”
“Y es,” said Snowman. “But Crake made the ground hard. Otherwise we
would not be able to walk on it.”
It took them a minute to work this one through. Then there w as much
nodding of heads. Snowman’ s brain was spinning; the illogic o f what he’d
just said dazzled him. But it seemed to have done the trick.
 
 In the dawn light he punched in the door code for the last time and
opened u p the bubble, and led th e Crakers out of Paradice. They noticed the
remains of Crake lying on the ground, but as they had never seen Crake
when ali ve, they  believed Snowman when he told them this was a thing of
no importance – only a sort of husk, only a sort of pod. It would have been
a shock to them to have witnessed their creator in his present state.
As f or Oryx, sh e was face dow n and wrapped in silk. No one they’d
recognize.
The trees surrounding the dome were lush and green, everything seemed
pristine, but when they reached the RejoovenEsense Compound  proper , the
evidence of destruction and death lay all around. Overturned golf carts,
sodden, illegible print-outs, com puters with their guts ripped out. Rubble,
fluttering cloth,  gnawed carrion. Broken toys. The vultures were still at
their business.
“Please, oh Snowman, what is that?”
It’ s a dead body , what do you think?  “It’ s part of the chaos,” said
Snowman. “Crake and Oryx are clearing away the chaos, for you – because
they love you – but they haven’ t quite finished yet.” This answer seemed to
content them.
“The chaos smells very bad,” said one of the older children.
“Y es,” said Snowman, with something he meant for a smile. “Chaos
always smells bad.”
Five blocks from the main Com pound gate, a man staggered out of a side
street to wards th em. He was in  the penultimate stages of the disease: the
sweat of  blood was on his forehead. “T ake me with you!” he shouted. The
words were hardly audible. The sound was animal, an animal enraged.
“Stay where you are,” Snowm an yelled. The Crakers stood amazed,
staring, but – it appeared – not f rightened. The man came on, stu mbled, fell.
Snowman shot him. He was worried about contagion – could the Crakers
get this thing, o r was their genetic material too dif ferent? Surely Crake
would have given them immunity . W ouldn’ t he?
When they reached the peripher al wall, there was another one, a woman.
She lurched abruptly out of the gatehouse, weeping, and grabbed at a child.“Help me!” she implored. “Don’ t leave me here!” Snowman shot her too.
During both incidents the Crakers looked on in wonder: they didn’ t
connect the noise made by Snowman’ s little stick with the crumpling of
these people.
“What is the thin g that fell down , oh Snowman? Is it a man or a woman?
It has extra skins, like you.”
“It’ s nothing. It’ s a piece of a bad dream that Crake is dreaming.”
They understood about dreaming, he knew that: they dreamed
themselves. Crake hadn’ t been able to eliminate dreams. W e’r e har d-wir ed
for dr eams , he’ d said. He couldn’ t get rid of the singing either . W e’r e har d-
wir ed for singing.  Singing and dreams were entwined.
“Why does Crake dream a bad dream like that?”
“He dreams it,” said Snowman, “so you won’ t have to.”
“It is sad that he suf fers on our behalf.”
“W e are very sorry . W e thank him.”
“W ill the bad dream be over soon?”
“Y es,” s aid Sno wman. “V ery soon.” The last one had been a c lose call,
the w oman was like a rabid dog. His hands were shaking now . H e needed a
drink.
“It will be over when Crake wakes up?”
“Y es. When he wakes up.”
“W e hope he will wake up very soon.”
 
 
And so they wal ked together through No Man’ s Land, stopping  here and
there to graze o r picking leaves and flowers as they went, the women and
children hand in hand, several of them singing, in their crystal v oices, their
voices like fronds unrolling. Th en they wound through the st reets of the
pleeblands, like a skewed parade or a fringe religious procession. During
the after noon st orms they took shelter; easy to do, as doors an d windowshad ceas ed to have meaning. Then, in the freshened air , they con tinued their
stroll.
Some of the bui ldings along the way were still smouldering. Th ere were
many questions, and much explaining to do. What is that smoke? It is a
thing of Crake’ s. Why is that chi ld lying down, with no eyes? It was the will
of Crake.  And so forth.
Snowman made it up as he went along. He knew what an improbable
shepherd he was. T o reassure them, he tried his best to appear dignified and
reliable, wise and kindly . A lifetime of deviousness came to his aid.
Finally they reached the edge of the park. Snowman had to shoot only
two mor e disint egrating people.  He was doing them a favour , so he didn’ t
feel too bad about it. He felt worse about other things.
 
 
Late in the evening, they came a t last to the shore. The leaves of the trees
were rus tling, th e water was gen tly waving, the setting sun was reflected on
it, p ink and red. The sands were white, the of fshore towers overflowing
with birds.
“It is so beautiful here.”
“Oh look! Are those feathers?”
“What is this place called?”
“It is called home ,” said Snowman.
 
 I d o l
Snowman rifles the storeroom, packs what he can carry – the rest of the
food, dr ied and in tins, flashli ght and batteries, maps and matches and
candles, ammun ition packs, duct tape, two bottles of water , pai nkiller pills,
antibiotic gel, a couple of sun-proof shirts, and one of those little knives
with the  scissors. And the spraygun, of course. He picks up h is stick and
heads ou t through the airlock do orway , avoiding Crake’ s gaze, Crake’ s grin;
and Oryx, in her silk butterfly shroud.
Oh Jimmy . That’ s not me!
 
 
Birdsong’ s begin ning. The predawn light is a feathery grey , the air misty;
dew pea rls the spiderwebs. If he  were a child it would seem fre sh and new ,
this ancient, magical ef fect. As it is, he knows it’ s an illusion: once the sun’ s
up, all will vanish. Halfway across the grounds he stops, takes one last
backward look at Paradice, swelling up out of the foliage like a lost balloon.
He has a map of the Compound, he’ s already studied it, charted his route.
He cuts across a main artery to the golf course and crosses  it without
incident. His pack and the gun are beginning to weigh on him, so he stops
for a drink. The sun’ s up now , the vultures are rising on their updrafts;
they’ve spotted him, they’ll note his limp, they’ll be watching.
He makes his way through a residential section, then across a
schoolground. H e has to shoot one pigoon before he reaches the peripheral
wall: it was just having a good stare, but he was certain it was a scout, it
would h ave to ld the others. At the side gate he pauses. There’ s a
watchtower here, and access to the rampart; he’d like to climb up, have a
look aro und, check out that smo ke he saw . But the door to the gatehouse is
locked, so he goes on out.
Nothing in the moat.
He c rosses No Man’ s Land, a nervous passage: he keeps see ing furry
movement at the sides of his eye s, and worries that the clumps of weeds are
changing shape.  At last he’ s in the pleeblands; he wends his w ay throughthe narr ow streets, alert for ambushes, but nothing hunts him . Only the
vultures circle above, waiting for him to be meat.
An hour before noon he climbs a tree, conceals himself in the shade of
the leav es. There he eats a tin of SoyOBoy wieners and finish es the first
bottle of water . Once he stops walking, his foot asserts itself: there’ s a
regular throbbing, it feels hot an d tight, as if it’ s crammed into a tiny shoe.
He rubs some antibiotic gel into the cut, but without much faith: the
microbes infecti ng him have dou btless already mounted their resistance and
are simmering away in there, turning his flesh to porridge.
He scan s the horizon from his arboreal vantage point, but he can’ t see
anything that looks like smok e. Arbor eal , a fine word. Our arbor eal
ancestors , C rake used to  say . Used to  shit on their enemies fr om above
while p er ched in tr ees. All planes and r ockets and bombs ar e simply
elaborations on that primate instinct.
What if I die up here, in this tree? he thinks. W ill it serve me right? Why?
Who will ever f ind me? And s o what if they do? Oh look, another dead
man. Big fucking deal. Common as dirt. Y eah, but this one’ s in  a tr ee. So,
who car es ?
“I’m not just any dead man,” he says out loud.
Of course not! Each one of us is unique! And every single dead person is
dead in his or h er very own special way! Now , who wants to shar e about
being de ad, in our own special  wor ds? Jimmy , you seem eage r to talk, so
why don’ t you begin?
Oh torture. Is this pur gatory , and if it is, why is it so much like the first
grade?
After a couple o f hours of fitfu l rest he moves on, holing up from the
afternoon storm in the remains o f a pleebland condo. Nobody in  it, dead or
alive. Th en he continues on, lim pity-limp, picking up speed now , heading
south and then east, towards the shore.
 
 
It’ s a relief whe n he hits the Snowman Fish Path. Instead of tu rning left
towards his tree, he hobbles along towards the village. He’ s tired, he wantsto sleep, but he’ll have to reassure the Crakers – demonstrate his safe return,
explain why he’ s been away so long, deliver his message from Crake.
He’ll need to invent some lies about that. What di d Crake look like? I
couldn’ t see him, he was in a b ush.  A burning bush, why not? Best to be
nonspecific abo ut the facial features. But he gave some or ders: I ge t two
fish a week – no , make it thr ee – and r oots and berries.  Maybe he should
add seaw eed to that. They’ll know which kinds are good. And crabs too –
not the land crab s, the other kin ds. He’ll order them up steamed, a dozen at
a time. Surely that’ s not too much to ask.
After he’ s seen the Crakers, he’ll stow away his new food and eat some
of it , and  then have a doze in his familiar tree. After that he’ll b e refreshed,
and his brain will be working better , and he’ll be able to think ab out what to
do next.
What to  do next about what? T hat’ s too dif ficult. But suppose there are
other pe ople around, people like himself – smoke-making people – he’ll
wish to be in some kind of shape to greet them. He’ll wash up – this one
time he can risk  the bathing poo l – then put on one of the clean sun-proof
shirts he ’ s broug ht, maybe hack of f some of his beard with the little scissors
on the knife.
Damn, he for got to bring a pocket mirror . Brainfart!
 
 
As he approaches the village, he hears an unusual sound – an odd
crooning, high voices and deep ones, men’ s and women’ s both –
harmonious, tw o-noted. It isn’ t singing, it’ s more like chanting. Then a
clang, a series of pings, a boom. What are they doing? Whatever it is,
they’ve never done anything like it before.
Here’ s the line of demarcation, the stinky but invisible chemica l wall of
piss renewed by the men each day . He steps across it, moves cautiously
forward, peers from behind a sh rub. There they are. He does a quick head
count – most of the young, all of the adults minus five – must be a fivesome
of f in the woods, mating. Th ey’re sitting in a semi-circle around a
grotesque-looking figure, a scarecrowlike ef figy . All their attention isfocused on it: th ey don’ t at firs t see him as he steps out from behind the
shrub and limps forward.
Ohhhh , croon the women.
Mun , the men intone.
Is that Amen ? Su rely not! Not after Crake’ s precautions, his insistence on
keeping these people pure, free of all contamination of that kind. And they
certainly didn’ t get that word from Snowman. It can’ t have happened.
Clank. Ping-ping-ping-ping. Boom. Ohhh-mun .
Now he can see the percussion group. The instruments are a hu bcap and
a metal rod – those create th e clanks – and a series of em pty bottles
dangling from a tree branch and  played with a serving spoon. The boom is
from an oil drum, hit with what looks like a kitchen mallet. Wh ere did they
get these things? Of f the beach, no doubt. He feels as if he’ s watching his
day-care rhythm band of long ago, but with huge green-eyed children.
What’ s the thing – the statue, o r scarecrow , or whatever it is? It has a
head, and a ragged cloth body . It has a face of sorts – one pebble eye, one
black one, a jar lid it looks like. It has an old string mop stuck onto the chin.
Now they’ve seen him. They scramble to their feet, hurry to greet him,
surround him. All are smiling happily; the children jump up  and down,
laughing; some of the women clap their hands with excitement. This is
more ener gy than they usually display about anything.
“Snowman! Snowman!” They touch him gently with their fingertips.
“Y ou are back with us!”
“W e knew we could call you, and you would hear us and come back.”
Not Amen , then. Snowman .
“W e made a picture of you, to help us send out our voices to you.”
W atch out for art , C rake used to  say . As soon  as they start doing ar t,
we’r e in tr ouble.  S ymbolic thinking of any kind  would signal downfall, in
Crake’ s view . Next they’d be inventing idols, and funerals, and grave
goods, a nd the afterlife, and sin , and Linear B, and kings, and then slavery
and war . Snowman longs to q uestion them – who first had the idea ofmaking a reasonable facsimile of him, of Snowman, out of a j ar lid and a
mop? But that will have to wait.
“Look! Snowman has flowers on him!” (This from the children, who’ve
noticed his new floral sarong.)
“Can we have flowers on us too?”
“W as it dif ficult, your journey into the sky?”
“Flowers too, flowers too!”
“What message does Crake send us?”
“Why do  you think I’ve been in to the sky?” Snowman asks, as  neutrally
as possible. He’ s clicking through the legend files in his head. When did he
ever me ntion th e sky? Did he relate some fable about where  Crake had
come from? Y es, now he reme mbers. He’d given Crake the attributes of
thunder and lightning. Naturally  they assume Crake must have gone back
up to cloudland.
“W e know Crake lives in the sky . And we saw the whirling wind – it
went the way you went.”
“Crake sent it for you – to help you rise from the ground.”
“Now you have been to the sky , you are almost like Crake.”
Best not  to contradict them, but he can’ t let them continue in a belief that
he can fly: sooner or later they might expect him to demonstrate. “The
whirling wind was so Crake cou ld come down  out of the sky ,”  he says. “He
made the wind to blow him do wn from above. He decided not to stay up
there, because the sun was too hot. So that isn’ t where I saw him.”
“Where is he?”
“He’ s in  the bubble,” Snowman says, truthfully enough. “The place we
came from. He’ s in Paradice.”
“Let us go there and see him,” s ays one of the older children. “W e know
how to get there. W e remember .”
“Y ou can’ t see him,” Snowman says, a little too sharply . “Y ou wouldn’ t
recognize him. He’ s turned hims elf into a plant.” Now where did that come
from? He’ s very tired, he’ s losing it.“Why would Crake become food?” asks Abraham Lincoln.
“It’ s not a plant you can eat,” says Snowman. “It’ s more like a tree.”
Some puzzled looks. “He talks to you. How does he talk, if he is a tree?”
This is going to  be hard to explain. He’ s made a narrative mistake. He
has the sensation that he’ s lost his balance at the top of a flight of stairs.
He flails for a grip. “It’ s a tree with a mouth,” he says.
“T rees don’ t have mouths,” says one of the children.
“But loo k,” says a woman – Madame Curie, Sacajawea? “Snow man has
hurt his foot.” T he women can always sense his discomfort, they try to ease
it by changing the subject. “W e must help him.”
“Let us get him a fish. W ould you like a fish now , Snowman? W e will ask
Oryx to give us a fish, to die for you.”
“That would be good,” he says with relief.
“Oryx wants you to be well.”
Soon he’ s lying on the ground and they’re purring over him. The pain
lessens, but although they try very hard, the swelling will not go all the way
down.
“It must have been a deep hurt.”
“It will need more.”
“W e will try again later .”
They bring the fish, cooked now and wrapped in leaves, and watch
joyfully while he eats it. He’ s not that hungry – it’ s the fever – but he tries
hard because he doesn’ t want to frighten them.
Already the children are destroying the image they made of him,
reducing it to it s component parts, which they plan to return to the beach.
This is a teachin g of Oryx, the women tell him: after a thing has been used,
it must be given back to its pla ce of origin. The picture of Snowman has
done its work: now that the real  Snowman is among them once more, there
is no reason for the other , the les s satisfactory one. Snowman finds it odd to
see his erstwhile  beard, his erstw hile head, travelling away piecemeal in the
hands of the children. It’ s as if he himself has been torn apart and scattered. 
 S e r m o n
“Some others like you came  here,” says Abraham Lincoln, after
Snowman has done his best wi th the fish. He’ s lying back against a tree
trunk; his foot is gently tingling now , as if it’ s asleep; he feels drowsy .
Snowman jolts awake. “Others like me?”
“W ith th ose othe r skins, like you ,” says Napoleon. “And one of them had
feathers on his face, like you.”
“Another one had feathers too but not long feathers.”
“W e thought they were sent by Crake. Like you.”
“One was a female.”
“She must have been sent by Oryx.”
“She smelled blue.”
“W e couldn’ t see the blue, because of her other skin.”
“But she smelled very blue. The men began to sing to her .”
“W e of fe red her flowers and sign alled to her with our penises, but she did
not respond with joy .”
“The men with the extra skins didn’ t look happy . They looked angry .”
“W e went towards them to greet them, but they ran away .”
Snowman can imagine. The si ght of these preternaturally calm, well-
muscled men advancing en masse , singing their unusual music, green eyes
glowing, blue penises waving in  unison, both hands outstretched like extras
in a zombie film, would have to have been alarming.
Snowman’ s hea rt is going very  fast now , with excitement or fear , or a
blend. “W ere they carrying anything?”
“One of  them had a noisy stick,  like yours.” Snowman’ s spraygun is out
of si ght: they m ust remember the gun from before, from when they walked
out of Paradice. “But they didn’ t make any noise with it.” The Children of
Crake ar e very nonchalant about  all this, they don’ t realize the implications.
It’ s as if they’re discussing rabbits.
“When did they come here?”“Oh, the day before, maybe.”
Useless to try to pin them down about any past event: they don’ t count
the days. “Where did they go?”
“They went there, along the bea ch. Why did they run away from us, oh
Snowman?”
“Perhaps they heard Crake,” says Sacajawea. “Perhaps he was calling to
them. They had shiny things on their arms, like you. Things for  listening to
Crake.”
“I’ll ask them,” says Snowman. “I’ll go and talk with them. I’ll do it
tomorrow . Now I will go to sleep.” He heaves himself upright, winces with
pain. He still can’ t put much weight on that foot.
“W e will come too,” say several of the men.
“No,” says Snowman. “I don’ t think that would be a very good idea.”
“But you are not well enough yet,” says the Empress Josephine. “Y ou
need more purring.” She look s worried: a small frown ha s appeared
between her eyes. Unusual to see such an expression on one of their perfect
wrinkle-free faces.
Snowman subm its, and a new purring team – three men this time, one
woman, they must think he need s strong medicine – hovers over his leg. He
tries to sense a r esponding vibra tion inside himself, wondering – not for the
first tim e – whether this method is tailored to work only on them. Those
who are n’ t purring watch the operation closely; some converse in low
voices, and after half an hour or so a fresh team takes over .
He can’ t relax into the sound as he knows he should, because he’ s
rehearsing the future, he can’ t h elp it. His mind is racing; behind his half-
closed eyes possibilities flash and collide. Maybe all will be well, maybe
this trio of stran gers is good-hearted, sane, well-intentioned; maybe he’ll
succeed in presenting the Crakers to them in the proper light. On the other
hand, th ese new  arrivals could e asily see the Children of Crake  as freakish,
or savage, or non-human and a threat.
Images from old history flip through his head, sidebars from Blood and
Roses: Ghenghis Khan’ s skull pile, the heaps of shoes and eyeglasses fromDachau, the burning corpse-filled churches in Rwanda, the sack of
Jerusalem by the Crusaders. The Arawak Indians, welcoming Christopher
Columbus with garlands and gif ts of fruit, smiling with delight , soon to be
massacred, or tied up beneath the beds upon which their women were being
raped.
But why  imagine the worst? M aybe these people have been frightened
of f, maybe they’ll have moved elsewhere. Maybe they’re ill and dying.
Or maybe not.
 
 
Before h e recon noitres, before he sets out on what – he now sees – is a
mission, he should make a speech of some kind to the Crakers. A sort of
sermon. Lay down a few comm andments, Crake’ s parting words to them.
Except that they don’ t need com mandments: no thou shalt nots  would be
any good to them, or even comprehensible, because it’ s all built in. No
point in telling them not to li e, steal, commit adultery , or c ovet. They
wouldn’ t grasp the concepts.
He s hould say s omething to them, though. Leave them with a fe w words
to remember . Better , some practical advice. He should say he might not be
coming back. He should say tha t the others, the ones with extra skins and
feathers, are not from Crake. He should say their noisy stick should be
taken away from them and thrown into the sea. He should say that if these
people s hould become violent – Oh Snow man, please, what is vi olent ? – or
if they attempt t o rape ( What is rape? ) the women, or molest ( What? ) the
children, or if they try to force others to work for them . . .
Hopeless, hopeless. What is work?  W ork is when you build things – What
is build?  – or grow things – What is gr ow?  – either  becaus e people would
hit and kill you if you didn’ t, or  else because they would give you money if
you did.
What is money?
No, he can’ t say any of that. Crake is watching over you , he’ll say . Oryx
loves you.Then his  eyes close and he feels  himself being lifted gently , carr ied, lifted
again, carried again, held.
 
 F o o t p r i n t
Snowman wakes before dawn. He lies unmoving, listening to the tide
coming in, wish-wash, wish-wash, the rhythm of heartbeat. He would so
like to believe he is still asleep.
On the eastern horizon there’ s a  greyish haze, lit now with a rosy , deadly
glow . St range how that colour st ill seems tender . He gazes at it w ith rapture;
there is no other word for it. Raptur e . Th e heart seized, carried away , as if
by some lar ge bird of prey . After everything that’ s happened, how can the
world st ill be so beautiful? Beca use it is. From the of fshore towers come the
avian shrieks and cries that sound like nothing human.
He takes a few deep breaths, scans the ground below for wildlife, makes
his way down from the tree, se tting his good foot on the ground first. He
checks t he insid e of his hat, flicks out an ant. Can a single ant b e said to be
alive, in any meaningful sense of the word, or does it only have relevance in
terms of its anthill? An old conundrum of Crake’ s.
He hobb les acro ss the beach to  the water ’ s edge, washes his foot, feels
the sting of salt:  there must hav e been a boil, the thing must have ruptured
overnight, the wound feels hug e now . The flies buzz around him, waiting
for a chance to settle.
Then he limps back up to the treeline, takes of f his flowered bedsheet,
hangs it on a bra nch: he doesn’ t want to be impeded. He’ll wear  nothing but
his baseball cap, to keep the gla re out of his eyes. He’ll dispense with the
sunglasses: it’ s early enough so  they won’ t be needed. He needs to catch
every nuance of movement.
He p ees on the grasshoppers, w atches with nostalgia as they w hir away .
Already this routine of his is ent ering the past, like a lover seen from a train
window , waving goodbye, pull ed inexorably back, in space, in time, so
quickly .
He goes to his cache, opens it, d rinks some water . His foot hurts like shit,
it’ s red around the wound again, his ankle’ s swollen: whatever ’ s in there has
overcome the cocktail from Paradice and the treatment of the  Crakers as
well. He  rubs on some of the ant ibiotic gel, useless as mud. Luck ily he’ s got
aspirins; those will dull the pain . He swallows four , chews up half a Joltbarfor the ener gy . Then he takes out his spraygun, checks the cellpack of
virtual bullets.
He’ s not ready for this. He’ s not well. He’ s frightened.
He could choose to stay put, await developments.
Oh honey . Y ou’r e my only hope.
 
 
He follo ws the beach northward, using his stick for balance, keeping to
the shadow of the trees as mu ch as possible. The sky’ s brig htening, he
needs to  hurry . He can see the smoke now , rising in a thin column. It will
take him an hour or more to ge t there. They don’ t know abou t him, those
people; they know about the Crakers but not about him, they won’ t be
expecting him. That’ s his best chance.
From tre e to tree he limps, elusive, white, a rumour . In search o f his own
kind.
 
 
Here’ s a human footprint, in the sand. Then another one. They aren’ t
sharp-edged, because the sand here is dry , but there’ s no mistaking them.
And now here’ s a whole trail of them, leading down to the s ea. Several
dif ferent sizes. Where the sand  turns damp he can see them b etter . What
were these people doing? Swimming, fishing? W ashing themselves?
They were wearing shoes, or sandals. Here’ s where they took them of f,
here’ s where they put them on a gain. He stamps his own good foot into the
wet sand, beside the biggest footprint: a signature of a kind. As soon as he
lifts his foot away the imprint fills with water .
He c an smell th e smoke, he can  hear the voices now . Sneaking he goes,
as if  wa lking through an empty house in which there might ye t be people.
What if they sho uld see him? A hairy naked maniac wearing nothing but a
baseball cap and carrying a spraygun. What would they do? Scream and
run? Attack? Open their arms to him with joy and brotherly love?
He peer s out through the screen  of leaves: there are only three of them,
sitting around their fire. They’ve got a spraygun of the ir own, aCorpSeCorps daily special, but it’ s lying on the ground. They’re thin,
battered-looking. T wo men, one brown, one white, a tea-coloured woman,
the men in tropical khakis, standard issue but filthy , the woman in the
remains of a uniform of some kind – nurse, guard? Must have  been pretty
once, be fore she  lost all that weight; now she’ s stringy , her hair parched,
broomstraw . All three of them look wasted.
They’re roasting something – meat of some kind. A rakunk? Y es, there’ s
the tail, over there on the ground. They must have shot it . The poor
creature.
Snowman hasn’ t smelled roast meat for so long. Is that why his eyes are
watering?
He’ s shivering now . He’ s feverish again.
 
 
What ne xt? Adv ance with a strip of bedsheet tied to a stick, waving a
white flag? I come in peace.  But he doesn’ t have his bedsheet with him.
Or , I c an show you much tr easur e . But no, he has nothing to trade with
them, no r they with him. Nothing except themselves. They cou ld listen to
him, the y could  hear his tale, he could hear theirs. They at least would
understand something of what he’ s been through.
Or , Get the hell off my turf befor e I blow you off , as in some old-style
W estern film. Hands u p. Back away . Leave that spraygun.  Tha t wo uldn’ t b e
the end of it though. There are three of them and only one of him. They’d
do what  he’d do in their place: t hey’d go away , but they’d lurk,  they’d spy .
They’d sneak up on him in the dark, conk him on the head w ith a rock.
He’d never know when they might come.
He could finish it now , before they see him, while he still has the
strength. While he can still stand up. His foot’ s like a shoeful of liquid fire.
But they  haven’ t done anything bad, not to him. Should he kill them in cold
blood? I s he able to? And if he starts killing them and then stops, one of
them will kill him first. Naturally .
“What do you want me to do?” he whispers to the empty air .
It’ s hard to know .Oh Jimmy , you wer e so funny .
Don’ t let me down.
From habit he lifts his watch; it shows him its blank face.
Zero hour , Snowman thinks. T ime to go.
 
 A c k n o w l e d g m e n t s
My thanks to the Society of Authors (England), as the literary
representative of the estate of V ir ginia W oolf, for permission to  quote from
T o the Lighthouse ; to Anne Carson  for permission to quote from The Beauty
of the Husband ; a nd to John C alder Publicatio ns and Grove Atlantic for
permission to quote eight words  from Samuel Beckett’ s novel, Mer cier and
Camier . A full list of the other quotatio ns used or paraphrased on the fridge
magnets in this book may be found at oryxandcrake.com . “W inter
W onderland,” a lluded to in Pa rt 9, is by Felix Bernard and Richard B.
Smith, and is copyrighted by W arner Bros.
The name “Amanda Payne” was graciously supplied by its auction-
winning owner , thereby raising much-needed funds for the Medical
Foundation for the Care of V ict ims of T orture (U.K.). Alex the  parrot is a
participant in the animal-intellig ence work of Dr . Irene Pepper ber g, and is
the p rotagonist of many books, d ocumentaries, and W eb sites. He has given
his nam e to the Alex Foundatio n. Thank you also to T uco the parrot, who
lives wi th Sharo n Doobenen and Brian Brett, and to Ricki the parrot, who
lives with Ruth Atwood and Ralph Siferd.
Deep background was inadvertently supplied by many magazines and
newspapers and  non-fiction science writers encountered over the years. A
full list of these is available at oryxandcrake.com. Thanks also to Dr . Dave
Mossop and Grace Mossop, and to Norman and Barbara Barichello, of
Whitehorse, in the Y ukon, Canada; to Max Davidson and team, of
Davidson’ s A rnheimland S afaris, Australia; to my  brother ,
neurophysiologist Dr . Harold Atwood (thank you for the study of sex
hormones in unborn mice, and other arcana); to Lic. Gilberto Silva and Lic.
Orlando Garrido, dedicated biologists, of Cuba; to Matthew Swan and team,
of Adve nture C anada, on one of whose Arctic voyages a portion of this
book was written; to the boys at the lab, 1939–45; and to Phi lip and Sue
Gregory of Cassowary House, Queensland, Australia, from whose balcony ,
in March 2002, the author observed that rare bird, the Red-necked Crake.
My gratitude as well to astute  early readers Sarah Cooper , Matthew
Poulikakis, Jess Atwood Gibson, Ron Bernstein, Maya Mavjee, Louise
Dennys, Steve Rubin, Arnulf Conradi, and Rosalie Abella; to my agents,Phoebe Larmore, V ivienne Sch uster , and Diana Mackay; to my editors,
Ellen Seligman of McClelland & Stewart (Canada), Nan T alese of
Doubleday (U.S.A.), and Liz Calder of Bloomsbury (U.K.); and to my
dauntless copyeditor , Heather Sangster . Also to my hardworking assistant,
Jennifer Osti, and to Surya Bhat tacharya, the keeper of the ominous Brown
Box of research  clippings. Also to Arthur Gelgoot, Michael Bradley , and
Pat W illiams; and to Eileen Alle n, Melinda Dabaay , and Rose T ornato. And
finally , to Graeme Gibson, my partner of thirty years, dedicated nature-
watcher , and enthusiastic participant in the Pelee Island Bird Race of
Ontario, Canada, who understands the obsessiveness of the writer .
 
 A b o u t  t h e  A u t h o r
Mar garet Atwood’ s books have been published in over thirty-five
countries. She is the author of m ore than thirty books of fiction, poetry , and
critical e ssays. In addition to The Han dmaid’ s T ale, her n ovels include Cat’ s
Eye —shortlisted for the Booker Prize— Alias Grace,  which won the Giller
Prize in Canada and the Premio Mondello in Italy , and her most recent, The
Blind Assassin,  win ner of the 2000 Booker Prize. She lives in T oronto with
writer Graeme Gibson. Oryx and Crake  is her eleventh novel.
 
 b y  M a r g a r e t  A t w o o d
FICTION
The Edible W oman (1969)
Surfacing (1972)
Lady Oracle (1976)
Dancing Girls (1977)
Life Before Man (1979)
Bodily Harm (1981)
Murder in the Dark (1983)
Bluebeard’ s Egg (1983)
The Handmaid’ s T ale (1985)
Cat’ s Eye (1988)
W ilderness T ips (1991)
Good Bones (1992)
The Robber Bride (1993)
Alias Grace (1996)
The Blind Assassin (2000)
Good Bones and Simple Murders (2001)
Oryx and Crake (2003)
POETR Y
Double Persephone (1961)
The Circle Game (1966)
The Animals in That Country (1968)
The Journals of Susanna Moodie (1970)
Procedures for Under ground (1970)
Power Politics (1971)
Y ou Are Happy (1974)Selected Poems (1976)
T wo-Headed Poems (1978)
T rue Stories (1981)
Interlunar (1984)
Selected Poems II: Poems Selected and New 1976–1986 (1986)
Morning in the Burned House (1995)
NONFICTION
Survival: A Thematic Guide to Canadian Literature (1972)
Days of the Rebels 1815–1840 (1977)
Second W ords (1982)
Strange Things: The Malevolent North in Canadian Literature (1996)
T wo Solicitudes: Conversations [with V ictor -Lévy Beaulieu] (1998)
Negotiating with the Dead: A W riter on W riting (2002)
FOR CHILDREN
Up in the T ree (1978)
Anna’ s Pet [with Joyce Barkhouse] (1980)
For the Birds (1990)
Princess Prunella and the Purple Peanut (1995)
 
 
 
 T a b l e  o f  C o n t e n t s
1
Mango
Flotsam
V oice
2
Bonfire
Or ganInc Farms
Lunch
3
Nooners
Downpour
4
Rakunk
Hammer
Crake
Brainfrizz
HottT otts
5
T oast
Fish
Bottle
6
Oryx
Birdcall
Roses
Pixieland Jazz
7
Sveltana
Purring
Blue
8
SoY ummieHappicuppa
Applied Rhetoric
Asper ger ’ s U.
W olvogs
Hypothetical
Extinctathon
9
Hike
RejoovenEsense
T wister
10
V ulturizing
AnooY oo
Garage
Gripless
1 1
Pigoons
Radio
Rampart
12
Pleebcrawl
BlyssPluss
MaddAddam
Paradice
Crake in Love
T akeout
Airlock
13
Bubble
Scribble
Remnant
14
Idol
Sermon
15
FootprintAcknowledgments
About the Author
by Mar garet Atwood